TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:AMO
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Amos 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Moab, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime.
LABEL:2
VERSE:But I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth; and Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet;
LABEL:3
VERSE:and I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay all the princes thereof with him, saith Jehovah.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Judah, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have rejected the law of Jehovah, and have not kept his statutes, and their lies have caused them to err, after which their fathers did walk.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Israel, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have sold the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes—
LABEL:7
VERSE:they that pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn aside the way of the meek: and a man and his father go unto the same maiden, to profane my holy name:
LABEL:8
VERSE:and they lay themselves down beside every altar upon clothes taken in pledge; and in the house of their God they drink the wine of such as have been fined.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazirites. Is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith Jehovah.
LABEL:12
VERSE:But ye gave the Nazirites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Behold, I will press you in your place, as a cart presseth that is full of sheaves.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And flight shall perish from the swift; and the strong shall not strengthen his force; neither shall the mighty deliver himself;
LABEL:15
VERSE:neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and he that is swift of foot shall not deliver himself; neither shall he that rideth the horse deliver himself;
LABEL:16
VERSE:and he that is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, saith Jehovah.