TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:AMO
CHAPTER:9
TITLE:Amos 9
LABEL:1
VERSE:I saw the Lord standing beside the altar: and he said, Smite the capitals, that the thresholds may shake; and break them in pieces on the head of all of them; and I will slay the last of them with the sword: there shall not one of them flee away, and there shall not one of them escape.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Though they dig into Sheol, thence shall my hand take them; and though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them down.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out thence; and though they be hid from my sight in the bottom of the sea, thence will I command the serpent, and it shall bite them.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And though they go into captivity before their enemies, thence will I command the sword, and it shall slay them: and I will set mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for good.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, is he that toucheth the land and it melteth, and all that dwell therein shall mourn; and it shall rise up wholly like the River, and shall sink again, like the River of Egypt;
LABEL:6
VERSE:it is he that buildeth his chambers in the heavens, and hath founded his vault upon the earth; he that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth; Jehovah is his name.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Are ye not as the children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children of Israel? saith Jehovah. Have not I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?
LABEL:8
VERSE:Behold, the eyes of the Lord Jehovah are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from off the face of the earth; save that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, saith Jehovah.
LABEL:9
VERSE:For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all the nations, like as grain is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the least kernel fall upon the earth.
LABEL:10
VERSE:All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, who say, The evil shall not overtake nor meet us.
LABEL:11
VERSE:In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old;
LABEL:12
VERSE:that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations that are called by my name, saith Jehovah that doeth this.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And I will bring back the captivity of my people Israel, and they shall build the waste cities, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make gardens, and eat the fruit of them.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be plucked up out of their land which I have given them, saith Jehovah thy God.