TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:LEV
CHAPTER:18
TITLE:Leviticus 18
LABEL:1
VERSE:Yahweh said to Moses,
LABEL:2
VERSE:“Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘I am Yahweh your God.
LABEL:3
VERSE:You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, where you lived. You shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you. You shall not follow their statutes.
LABEL:4
VERSE:You shall do my ordinances. You shall keep my statutes and walk in them. I am Yahweh your God.
LABEL:5
VERSE:You shall therefore keep my statutes and my ordinances, which if a man does, he shall live in them. I am Yahweh.
LABEL:6
VERSE:“‘None of you shall approach any close relatives, to uncover their nakedness: I am Yahweh.
LABEL:7
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, nor the nakedness of your mother: she is your mother. You shall not uncover her nakedness.
LABEL:8
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife. It is your father’s nakedness.
LABEL:9
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home or born abroad.
LABEL:10
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son’s daughter, or of your daughter’s daughter, even their nakedness; for theirs is your own nakedness.
LABEL:11
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, conceived by your father, since she is your sister.
LABEL:12
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister. She is your father’s near kinswoman.
LABEL:13
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister, for she is your mother’s near kinswoman.
LABEL:14
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s brother. You shall not approach his wife. She is your aunt.
LABEL:15
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law. She is your son’s wife. You shall not uncover her nakedness.
LABEL:16
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother’s wife. It is your brother’s nakedness.
LABEL:17
VERSE:“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter. You shall not take her son’s daughter, or her daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness. They are near kinswomen. It is wickedness.
LABEL:18
VERSE:“‘You shall not take a wife in addition to her sister, to be a rival, to uncover her nakedness, while her sister is still alive.
LABEL:19
VERSE:“‘You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness.
LABEL:20
VERSE:“‘You shall not lie carnally with your neighbor’s wife, and defile yourself with her.
LABEL:21
VERSE:“‘You shall not give any of your children as a sacrifice to Molech. You shall not profane the name of your God. I am Yahweh.
LABEL:22
VERSE:“‘You shall not lie with a man as with a woman. That is detestable.
LABEL:23
VERSE:“‘You shall not lie with any animal to defile yourself with it. No woman may give herself to an animal, to lie down with it: it is a perversion.
LABEL:24
VERSE:“‘Don’t defile yourselves in any of these things; for in all these the nations which I am casting out before you were defiled.
LABEL:25
VERSE:The land was defiled. Therefore I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out her inhabitants.
LABEL:26
VERSE:You therefore shall keep my statutes and my ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the native-born, nor the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you
LABEL:27
VERSE:(for the men of the land that were before you had done all these abominations, and the land became defiled),
LABEL:28
VERSE:that the land not vomit you out also, when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
LABEL:29
VERSE:“‘For whoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Therefore you shall keep my requirements, that you do not practice any of these abominable customs which were practiced before you, and that you do not defile yourselves with them. I am Yahweh your God.’”