TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:LEV
CHAPTER:24
TITLE:Leviticus 24
LABEL:1
VERSE:Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:“Command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Outside of the veil of the Testimony, in the Tent of Meeting, Aaron shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh continually. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations.
LABEL:4
VERSE:He shall keep in order the lamps on the pure gold lamp stand before Yahweh continually.
LABEL:5
VERSE:“You shall take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes of it: two tenths of an ephah shall be in one cake.
LABEL:6
VERSE:You shall set them in two rows, six on a row, on the pure gold table before Yahweh.
LABEL:7
VERSE:You shall put pure frankincense on each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire to Yahweh.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Every Sabbath day he shall set it in order before Yahweh continually. It is an everlasting covenant on the behalf of the children of Israel.
LABEL:9
VERSE:It shall be for Aaron and his sons. They shall eat it in a holy place; for it is most holy to him of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire by a perpetual statute.”
LABEL:10
VERSE:The son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelite woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp.
LABEL:11
VERSE:The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him to Moses. His mother’s name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
LABEL:12
VERSE:They put him in custody until Yahweh’s will should be declared to them.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
LABEL:14
VERSE:“Bring him who cursed out of the camp; and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him.
LABEL:15
VERSE:You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin.
LABEL:16
VERSE:He who blasphemes Yahweh’s name, he shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall certainly stone him. The foreigner as well as the native-born shall be put to death when he blasphemes the Name.
LABEL:17
VERSE:“‘He who strikes any man mortally shall surely be put to death.
LABEL:18
VERSE:He who strikes an animal mortally shall make it good, life for life.
LABEL:19
VERSE:If anyone injures his neighbor, it shall be done to him as he has done:
LABEL:20
VERSE:fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. It shall be done to him as he has injured someone.
LABEL:21
VERSE:He who kills an animal shall make it good; and he who kills a man shall be put to death.
LABEL:22
VERSE:You shall have one kind of law for the foreigner as well as the native-born; for I am Yahweh your God.’”
LABEL:23
VERSE:Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and they brought him who had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. The children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses.