TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ZEC
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Zechariah 6
LABEL:1
VERSE:And again I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass.
LABEL:2
VERSE:In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot black horses;
LABEL:3
VERSE:and in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot grizzled strong horses.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Then I answered and said unto the angel that talked with me, What are these, my lord?
LABEL:5
VERSE:And the angel answered and said unto me, These are the four winds of heaven, which go forth from standing before the Lord of all the earth.
LABEL:6
VERSE:The chariot wherein are the black horses goeth forth toward the north country; and the white went forth after them; and the grizzled went forth toward the south country.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the strong went forth, and sought to go that they might walk to and fro through the earth: and he said, Get you hence, walk to and fro through the earth. So they walked to and fro through the earth.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Then cried he to me, and spake unto me, saying, Behold, they that go toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
LABEL:10
VERSE:Take of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah; and come thou the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, whither they are come from Babylon;
LABEL:11
VERSE:yea, take of them silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest;
LABEL:12
VERSE:and speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh Jehovah of hosts, saying, Behold, the man whose name is the Branch: and he shall grow up out of his place; and he shall build the temple of Jehovah;
LABEL:13
VERSE:even he shall build the temple of Jehovah; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; and he shall be a priest upon his throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And the crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the temple of Jehovah.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And they that are far off shall come and build in the temple of Jehovah; and ye shall know that Jehovah of hosts hath sent me unto you. And this shall come to pass, if ye will diligently obey the voice of Jehovah your God.