TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1KI
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:1 Kings 4
SECTION:His Princes
LABEL:1
VERSE:So king Solomon was king over all Israel.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And these were the princes which he had; Azariah the son of Zadok the priest,
LABEL:3
VERSE:Elihoreph and Ahiah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the host: and Zadok and Abiathar were the priests:
LABEL:5
VERSE:and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers: and Zabud the son of Nathan was principal officer, and the king's friend:
LABEL:6
VERSE:and Ahishar was over the household: and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the tribute.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, which provided victuals for the king and his household: each man his month in a year made provision.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And these are their names: The son of Hur, in mount Ephraim:
LABEL:9
VERSE:the son of Dekar, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan:
LABEL:10
VERSE:the son of Hesed, in Aruboth; to him pertained Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher:
LABEL:11
VERSE:the son of Abinadab, in all the region of Dor; which had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife:
LABEL:12
VERSE:Baana the son of Ahilud; to him pertained Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean, which is by Zartanah beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, even unto the place that is beyond Jokneam:
LABEL:13
VERSE:the son of Geber, in Ramoth-gilead; to him pertained the towns of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; to him also pertained the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, threescore great cities with walls and brasen bars:
LABEL:14
VERSE:Ahinadab the son of Iddo had Mahanaim:
LABEL:15
VERSE:Ahimaaz was in Naphtali; he also took Basmath the daughter of Solomon to wife:
LABEL:16
VERSE:Baanah the son of Hushai was in Asher and in Aloth:
LABEL:17
VERSE:Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar:
LABEL:18
VERSE:Shimei the son of Elah, in Benjamin:
LABEL:19
VERSE:Geber the son of Uri was in the country of Gilead, in the country of Sihon king of the Amorites, and of Og king of Bashan; and he was the only officer which was in the land.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Judah and Israel were many, as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking, and making merry.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And Solomon reigned over all kingdoms from the river unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt: they brought presents, and served Solomon all the days of his life.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal,
LABEL:23
VERSE:ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and an hundred sheep, beside harts, and roebucks, and fallow deer, and fatted fowl.
LABEL:24
VERSE:For he had dominion over all the region on this side the river, from Tiphsah even to Azzah, over all the kings on this side the river: and he had peace on all sides round about him.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And those officers provided victual for king Solomon, and for all that came unto king Solomon's table, every man in his month: they lacked nothing.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Barley also and straw for the horses and dromedaries brought they unto the place where the officers were, every man according to his charge.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea shore.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east country, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
LABEL:31
VERSE:For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round about.
LABEL:32
VERSE:And he spake three thousand proverbs: and his songs were a thousand and five.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And he spake of trees, from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall: he spake also of beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of fishes.
LABEL:34
VERSE:And there came of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisdom.