TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:1SA
CHAPTER:8
TITLE:1 Samuel 8
LABEL:1
VERSE:When Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba.
LABEL:3
VERSE:His sons didn’t walk in his ways, but turned away after dishonest gain, took bribes, and perverted justice.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel to Ramah.
LABEL:5
VERSE:They said to him, “Behold, you are old, and your sons don’t walk in your ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.”
LABEL:6
VERSE:But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, “Give us a king to judge us.”
VERSE:Samuel prayed to Yahweh.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen to the voice of the people in all that they tell you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me as the king over them.
LABEL:8
VERSE:According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even to this day, in that they have forsaken me and served other gods, so they also do to you.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Now therefore, listen to their voice. However, you shall protest solemnly to them, and shall show them the way of the king who will reign over them.”
LABEL:10
VERSE:Samuel told all Yahweh’s words to the people who asked him for a king.
LABEL:11
VERSE:He said, “This will be the way of the king who shall reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint them as his servants, for his chariots and to be his horsemen; and they will run before his chariots.
LABEL:12
VERSE:He will appoint them to him for captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and he will assign some to plow his ground and to reap his harvest; and to make his instruments of war and the instruments of his chariots.
LABEL:13
VERSE:He will take your daughters to be perfumers, to be cooks, and to be bakers.
LABEL:14
VERSE:He will take your fields, your vineyards, and your olive groves, even your best, and give them to his servants.
LABEL:15
VERSE:He will take one tenth of your seed and of your vineyards, and give it to his officers and to his servants.
LABEL:16
VERSE:He will take your male servants, your female servants, your best young men, and your donkeys, and assign them to his own work.
LABEL:17
VERSE:He will take one tenth of your flocks; and you will be his servants.
LABEL:18
VERSE:You will cry out in that day because of your king whom you will have chosen for yourselves; and Yahweh will not answer you in that day.”
LABEL:19
VERSE:But the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel; and they said, “No, but we will have a king over us,
LABEL:20
VERSE:that we also may be like all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.”
LABEL:21
VERSE:Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Yahweh.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen to their voice, and make them a king.”
VERSE:Samuel said to the men of Israel, “Everyone go to your own city.”