TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:GAL
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Galatians 6
LABEL:1
VERSE:Brethren, even if a man be overtaken in any trespass, ye who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness; looking to thyself, lest thou also be tempted.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Bear ye one another’s burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For if a man thinketh himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But let each man prove his own work, and then shall he have his glorying in regard of himself alone, and not of his neighbor.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For each man shall bear his own burden.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For he that soweth unto his own flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth unto the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap eternal life.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And let us not be weary in well-doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not.
LABEL:10
VERSE:So then, as we have opportunity, let us work that which is good toward all men, and especially toward them that are of the household of the faith.
LABEL:11
VERSE:See with how large letters I write unto you with mine own hand.
LABEL:12
VERSE:As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, they compel you to be circumcised; only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For not even they who receive circumcision do themselves keep the law; but they desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But far be it from me to glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world hath been crucified unto me, and I unto the world.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And as many as shall walk by this rule, peace be upon them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Henceforth let no man trouble me; for I bear branded on my body the marks of Jesus.
LABEL:18
VERSE:The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brethren. Amen.