TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:TIT
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:Titus 3
SECTION:Social Service
LABEL:1
VERSE:Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work,
LABEL:2
VERSE:to speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared,
LABEL:5
VERSE:not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;
LABEL:6
VERSE:which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;
LABEL:7
VERSE:that being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
LABEL:8
VERSE:This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.
LABEL:10
VERSE:A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject;
LABEL:11
VERSE:knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself.
LABEL:12
VERSE:When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And let our's also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful.
LABEL:15
VERSE:All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.
VERSE:It was written to Titus, ordained the first bishop of the church of the Cretians, from Nicopolis of Macedonia.