TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:MAT
CHAPTER:15
TITLE:Matthew 15
LABEL:1
VERSE:Then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, which were of Jerusalem, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?
LABEL:4
VERSE:For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and, He that curseth father or mother, let him die the death.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me;
LABEL:6
VERSE:and honour not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying,
LABEL:8
VERSE:  This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips;
VERSE:But their heart is far from me.
LABEL:9
VERSE:  But in vain they do worship me,
VERSE:Teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And he called the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand:
LABEL:11
VERSE:not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Then came his disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, after they heard this saying?
LABEL:13
VERSE:But he answered and said, Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Let them alone: they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Then answered Peter and said unto him, Declare unto us this parable.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without understanding?
LABEL:17
VERSE:Do not ye yet understand, that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draught?
LABEL:18
VERSE:But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart; and they defile the man.
LABEL:19
VERSE:For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies:
LABEL:20
VERSE:these are the things which defile a man: but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not a man.
SECTION:Tyre and Sidon
LABEL:21
VERSE:Then Jesus went thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And, behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou Son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil.
LABEL:23
VERSE:But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away; for she crieth after us.
LABEL:24
VERSE:But he answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me.
LABEL:26
VERSE:But he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it to dogs.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And she said, Truth, Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour.
SECTION:By the Sea of Galilee
LABEL:29
VERSE:And Jesus departed from thence, and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee; and went up into a mountain, and sat down there.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And great multitudes came unto him, having with them those that were lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at Jesus' feet; and he healed them:
LABEL:31
VERSE:insomuch that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to be whole, the lame to walk, and the blind to see: and they glorified the God of Israel.
SECTION:Feeding Four Thousand
LABEL:32
VERSE:Then Jesus called his disciples unto him, and said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat: and I will not send them away fasting, lest they faint in the way.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And his disciples say unto him, Whence should we have so much bread in the wilderness, as to fill so great a multitude?
LABEL:34
VERSE:And Jesus saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few little fishes.
LABEL:35
VERSE:And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground.
LABEL:36
VERSE:And he took the seven loaves and the fishes, and gave thanks, and brake them, and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
LABEL:37
VERSE:And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken meat that was left seven baskets full.
LABEL:38
VERSE:And they that did eat were four thousand men, beside women and children.
LABEL:39
VERSE:And he sent away the multitude, and took ship, and came into the coasts of Magdala.