TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:MAT
CHAPTER:25
TITLE:Matthew 25
SECTION:The Ten Virgins
LABEL:1
VERSE:  Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And five of them were wise, and five were foolish.
LABEL:3
VERSE:They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them:
LABEL:4
VERSE:but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
LABEL:5
VERSE:While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
LABEL:12
VERSE:But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh.
SECTION:The Talents
LABEL:14
VERSE:  For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two.
LABEL:18
VERSE:But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money.
LABEL:19
VERSE:After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more.
LABEL:21
VERSE:His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
LABEL:22
VERSE:He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them.
LABEL:23
VERSE:His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed:
LABEL:25
VERSE:and I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine.
LABEL:26
VERSE:His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed:
LABEL:27
VERSE:thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
SECTION:The Judgement
LABEL:31
VERSE:  When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:
LABEL:32
VERSE:and before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats:
LABEL:33
VERSE:and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
LABEL:34
VERSE:Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world:
LABEL:35
VERSE:for I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in:
LABEL:36
VERSE:naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me.
LABEL:37
VERSE:Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
LABEL:38
VERSE:When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee?
LABEL:39
VERSE:Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?
LABEL:40
VERSE:And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it  unto me.
LABEL:41
VERSE:Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels:
LABEL:42
VERSE:for I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink:
LABEL:43
VERSE:I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not.
LABEL:44
VERSE:Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee?
LABEL:45
VERSE:Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.
LABEL:46
VERSE:And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal.