TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:MAT
CHAPTER:28
TITLE:Matthew 28
SECTION:The Resurrection
LABEL:1
VERSE:In the end of the sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And, behold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it.
LABEL:3
VERSE:His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow:
LABEL:4
VERSE:and for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified.
LABEL:6
VERSE:He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all the things that were done.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers,
LABEL:13
VERSE:saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you.
LABEL:15
VERSE:So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:
LABEL:20
VERSE:teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen.