TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:MAT
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Matthew 6
SECTION:Real Religion
LABEL:1
VERSE:  Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth:
LABEL:4
VERSE:that thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.
LABEL:5
VERSE:  And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.
LABEL:7
VERSE:But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.
LABEL:9
VERSE:After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Give us this day our daily bread.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:
LABEL:15
VERSE:but if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
LABEL:16
VERSE:  Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face;
LABEL:18
VERSE:that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.
LABEL:19
VERSE:  Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal:
LABEL:20
VERSE:but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal:
LABEL:21
VERSE:for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
LABEL:22
VERSE:The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.
LABEL:23
VERSE:But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!
SECTION:True Wisdom
LABEL:24
VERSE:  No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?
LABEL:26
VERSE:Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?
LABEL:27
VERSE:Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?
LABEL:28
VERSE:And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin:
LABEL:29
VERSE:and yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?
LABEL:31
VERSE:Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?
LABEL:32
VERSE:(For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.
LABEL:33
VERSE:But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.
LABEL:34
VERSE:Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.