TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1KI
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:1 Kings 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:And king Solomon was king over all Israel.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And these were the princes whom he had: Azariah the son of Zadok, the priest;
LABEL:3
VERSE:Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder;
LABEL:4
VERSE:and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the host; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
LABEL:5
VERSE:and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers; and Zabud the son of Nathan was chief minister, and the king’s friend;
LABEL:6
VERSE:and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the men subject to taskwork.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, who provided victuals for the king and his household: each man had to make provision for a month in the year.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And these are their names: Ben-hur, in the hill-country of Ephraim;
LABEL:9
VERSE:Ben-deker, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan;
LABEL:10
VERSE:Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (to him pertained Socoh, and all the land of Hepher);
LABEL:11
VERSE:Ben-abinadab, in all the height of Dor (he had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife);
LABEL:12
VERSE:Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean which is beside Zarethan, beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, as far as beyond Jokmeam;
LABEL:13
VERSE:Ben-geber, in Ramoth-gilead (to him pertained the towns of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; even to him pertained the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, threescore great cities with walls and brazen bars);
LABEL:14
VERSE:Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim;
LABEL:15
VERSE:Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he also took Basemath the daughter of Solomon to wife);
LABEL:16
VERSE:Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;
LABEL:17
VERSE:Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar;
LABEL:18
VERSE:Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin;
LABEL:19
VERSE:Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan; and he was the only officer that was in the land.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Judah and Israel were many as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt: they brought tribute, and served Solomon all the days of his life.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And Solomon’s provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal,
LABEL:23
VERSE:ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and a hundred sheep, besides harts, and gazelles, and roebucks, and fatted fowl.
LABEL:24
VERSE:For he had dominion over all the region on this side the River, from Tiphsah even to Gaza, over all the kings on this side the River: and he had peace on all sides round about him.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig-tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And those officers provided victuals for king Solomon, and for all that came unto king Solomon’s table, every man in his month; they let nothing be lacking.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds brought they unto the place where the officers were, every man according to his charge.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea-shore.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And Solomon’s wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
LABEL:31
VERSE:For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all the nations round about.
LABEL:32
VERSE:And he spake three thousand proverbs; and his songs were a thousand and five.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And he spake of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall; he spake also of beasts, and of birds, and of creeping things, and of fishes.
LABEL:34
VERSE:And there came of all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, who had heard of his wisdom.