TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1SA
CHAPTER:8
TITLE:1 Samuel 8
SECTION:Demand for a King
LABEL:1
VERSE:And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Now the name of his firstborn was Joel; and the name of his second, Abiah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah,
LABEL:5
VERSE:and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the LORD.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the LORD said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
LABEL:8
VERSE:According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And Samuel told all the words of the LORD unto the people that asked of him a king.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: He will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and some shall run before his chariots.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And he will appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties; and will set them to ear his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and instruments of his chariots.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And he will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And he will take your menservants, and your maidservants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to his work.
LABEL:17
VERSE:He will take the tenth of your sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king which ye shall have chosen you; and the LORD will not hear you in that day.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us;
LABEL:20
VERSE:that we also may be like all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of the LORD.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And the LORD said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.