TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:LEV
CHAPTER:19
TITLE:Leviticus 19
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy; for I Jehovah your God am holy.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father; and ye shall keep my sabbaths: I am Jehovah your God.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am Jehovah your God.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And when ye offer a sacrifice of peace-offerings unto Jehovah, ye shall offer it that ye may be accepted.
LABEL:6
VERSE:It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow: and if aught remain until the third day, it shall be burnt with fire.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it shall not be accepted:
LABEL:8
VERSE:but every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he hath profaned the holy thing of Jehovah: and that soul shall be cut off from his people.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather the fallen fruit of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am Jehovah your God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Ye shall not steal; neither shall ye deal falsely, nor lie one to another.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of thy God: I am Jehovah.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Thou shalt not oppress thy neighbor, nor rob him: the wages of a hired servant shall not abide with thee all night until the morning.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind; but thou shalt fear thy God: I am Jehovah.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty; but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbor.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people: neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbor: I am Jehovah.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart: thou shalt surely rebuke thy neighbor, and not bear sin because of him.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Thou shalt not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people; but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself: I am Jehovah.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender with a diverse kind: thou shalt not sow thy field with two kinds of seed: neither shall there come upon thee a garment of two kinds of stuff mingled together.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, that is a bondmaid, betrothed to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her; they shall be punished; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And he shall bring his trespass-offering unto Jehovah, unto the door of the tent of meeting, even a ram for a trespass-offering.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering before Jehovah for his sin which he hath sinned: and the sin which he hath sinned shall be forgiven him.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit thereof as their uncircumcision: three years shall they be as uncircumcised unto you; it shall not be eaten.
LABEL:24
VERSE:But in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy, for giving praise unto Jehovah.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And in the fifth year shall ye eat of the fruit thereof, that it may yield unto you the increase thereof: I am Jehovah your God.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Ye shall not eat anything with the blood: neither shall ye use enchantments, nor practise augury.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am Jehovah.
LABEL:29
VERSE:Profane not thy daughter, to make her a harlot; lest the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am Jehovah.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Turn ye not unto them that have familiar spirits, nor unto the wizards; seek them not out, to be defiled by them: I am Jehovah your God.
LABEL:32
VERSE:Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of the old man, and thou shalt fear thy God: I am Jehovah.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not do him wrong.
LABEL:34
VERSE:The stranger that sojourneth with you shall be unto you as the home-born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt: I am Jehovah your God.
LABEL:35
VERSE:Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity.
LABEL:36
VERSE:Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have: I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
LABEL:37
VERSE:And ye shall observe all my statutes, and all mine ordinances, and do them: I am Jehovah.