TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:LEV
CHAPTER:23
TITLE:Leviticus 23
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, The set feasts of Jehovah, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my set feasts.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Six days shall work be done: but on the seventh day is a sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of work: it is a sabbath unto Jehovah in all your dwellings.
LABEL:4
VERSE:These are the set feasts of Jehovah, even holy convocations, which ye shall proclaim in their appointed season.
LABEL:5
VERSE:In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, is Jehovah’s passover.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread unto Jehovah: seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread.
LABEL:7
VERSE:In the first day ye shall have a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work.
LABEL:8
VERSE:But ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah seven days: in the seventh day is a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:10
VERSE:Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye are come into the land which I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring the sheaf of the first-fruits of your harvest unto the priest:
LABEL:11
VERSE:and he shall wave the sheaf before Jehovah, to be accepted for you: on the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall wave it.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And in the day when ye wave the sheaf, ye shall offer a he-lamb without blemish a year old for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And the meal-offering thereof shall be two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah for a sweet savor; and the drink-offering thereof shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched grain, nor fresh ears, until this selfsame day, until ye have brought the oblation of your God: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And ye shall count unto you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave-offering; seven sabbaths shall there be complete:
LABEL:16
VERSE:even unto the morrow after the seventh sabbath shall ye number fifty days; and ye shall offer a new meal-offering unto Jehovah.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Ye shall bring out of your habitations two wave-loaves of two tenth parts of an ephah: they shall be of fine flour, they shall be baken with leaven, for first-fruits unto Jehovah.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And ye shall present with the bread seven lambs without blemish a year old, and one young bullock, and two rams: they shall be a burnt-offering unto Jehovah, with their meal-offering, and their drink-offerings, even an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And ye shall offer one he-goat for a sin-offering, and two he-lambs a year old for a sacrifice of peace-offerings.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the first-fruits for a wave-offering before Jehovah, with the two lambs: they shall be holy to Jehovah for the priest.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And ye shall make proclamation on the selfsame day; there shall be a holy convocation unto you; ye shall do no servile work: it is a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest: thou shalt leave them for the poor, and for the sojourner: I am Jehovah your God.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:24
VERSE:Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall be a solemn rest unto you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Ye shall do no servile work; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:27
VERSE:Howbeit on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement: it shall be a holy convocation unto you, and ye shall afflict your souls; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And ye shall do no manner of work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to make atonement for you before Jehovah your God.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For whatsoever soul it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day; he shall be cut off from his people.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And whatsoever soul it be that doeth any manner of work in that same day, that soul will I destroy from among his people.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Ye shall do no manner of work: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
LABEL:32
VERSE:It shall be unto you a sabbath of solemn rest, and ye shall afflict your souls: in the ninth day of the month at even, from even unto even, shall ye keep your sabbath.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:34
VERSE:Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto Jehovah.
LABEL:35
VERSE:On the first day shall be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work.
LABEL:36
VERSE:Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah: on the eighth day shall be a holy convocation unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah: it is a solemn assembly; ye shall do no servile work.
LABEL:37
VERSE:These are the set feasts of Jehovah, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah, a burnt-offering, and a meal-offering, a sacrifice, and drink-offerings, each on its own day;
LABEL:38
VERSE:besides the sabbaths of Jehovah, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill-offerings, which ye give unto Jehovah.
LABEL:39
VERSE:Howbeit on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruits of the land, ye shall keep the feast of Jehovah seven days: on the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest.
LABEL:40
VERSE:And ye shall take you on the first day the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm-trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before Jehovah your God seven days.
LABEL:41
VERSE:And ye shall keep it a feast unto Jehovah seven days in the year: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations; ye shall keep it in the seventh month.
LABEL:42
VERSE:Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are home-born in Israel shall dwell in booths;
LABEL:43
VERSE:that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am Jehovah your God.
LABEL:44
VERSE:And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the set feasts of Jehovah.