TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:LEV
CHAPTER:9
TITLE:Leviticus 9
LABEL:1
VERSE:And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
LABEL:2
VERSE:and he said unto Aaron, Take thee a calf of the herd for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and offer them before Jehovah.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, Take ye a he-goat for a sin-offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt-offering;
LABEL:4
VERSE:and an ox and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and a meal-offering mingled with oil: for to-day Jehovah appeareth unto you.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting: and all the congregation drew near and stood before Jehovah.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah commanded that ye should do: and the glory of Jehovah shall appear unto you.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And Moses said unto Aaron, Draw near unto the altar, and offer thy sin-offering, and thy burnt-offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for the people; and offer the oblation of the people, and make atonement for them; as Jehovah commanded.
LABEL:8
VERSE:So Aaron drew near unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And the sons of Aaron presented the blood unto him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar:
LABEL:10
VERSE:but the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul from the liver of the sin-offering, he burnt upon the altar; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And the flesh and the skin he burnt with fire without the camp.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And he slew the burnt-offering; and Aaron’s sons delivered unto him the blood, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And they delivered the burnt-offering unto him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burnt them upon the altar.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And he washed the inwards and the legs, and burnt them upon the burnt-offering on the altar.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And he presented the people’s oblation, and took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And he presented the burnt-offering, and offered it according to the ordinance.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And he presented the meal-offering, and filled his hand therefrom, and burnt it upon the altar, besides the burnt-offering of the morning.
LABEL:18
VERSE:He slew also the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron’s sons delivered unto him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about,
LABEL:19
VERSE:and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covereth the inwards, and the kidneys, and the caul of the liver:
LABEL:20
VERSE:and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar:
LABEL:21
VERSE:and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave-offering before Jehovah; as Moses commanded.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of Jehovah appeared unto all the people.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And there came forth fire from before Jehovah, and consumed upon the altar the burnt-offering and the fat: and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.