TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:REV
CHAPTER:8
TITLE:Revelation 8
LABEL:1
VERSE:And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour.
SECTION:Trumpet Peals
LABEL:2
VERSE:And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.
LABEL:7
VERSE:The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood;
LABEL:9
VERSE:and the third part of the creatures which were in the sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters;
LABEL:11
VERSE:and the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone not for a third part of it, and the night likewise.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And I beheld, and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, which are yet to sound!