TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:PHP
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Philippians 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
LABEL:2
VERSE:grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
SECTION:The Heart of the Apostle
LABEL:3
VERSE:I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
LABEL:4
VERSE:always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy,
LABEL:5
VERSE:for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;
LABEL:6
VERSE:being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:
LABEL:7
VERSE:even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
LABEL:10
VERSE:that ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offence till the day of Christ;
LABEL:11
VERSE:being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel;
LABEL:13
VERSE:so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
LABEL:14
VERSE:and many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife; and some also of good will:
LABEL:16
VERSE:the one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds:
LABEL:17
VERSE:but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
LABEL:18
VERSE:What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
LABEL:19
VERSE:For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
LABEL:20
VERSE:according to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
LABEL:21
VERSE:For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: yet what I shall choose I wot not.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better:
LABEL:24
VERSE:nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith;
LABEL:26
VERSE:that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel;
LABEL:28
VERSE:and in nothing terrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that of God.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;
LABEL:30
VERSE:having the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.