TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:PHP
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Philippians 2
SECTION:The Mind of Christ
LABEL:1
VERSE:If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies,
LABEL:2
VERSE:fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
LABEL:6
VERSE:who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
LABEL:7
VERSE:but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
LABEL:8
VERSE:and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name:
LABEL:10
VERSE:that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;
LABEL:11
VERSE:and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Do all things without murmurings and disputings:
LABEL:15
VERSE:that ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world;
LABEL:16
VERSE:holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither laboured in vain.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For the same cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me.
LABEL:19
VERSE:But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For I have no man likeminded, who will naturally care for your state.
LABEL:21
VERSE:For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see how it will go with me.
LABEL:24
VERSE:But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and companion in labour, and fellowsoldier, but your messenger, and he that ministered to my wants.
LABEL:26
VERSE:For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick.
LABEL:27
VERSE:For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
LABEL:28
VERSE:I sent him therefore the more carefully, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
LABEL:29
VERSE:Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; and hold such in reputation:
LABEL:30
VERSE:because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life, to supply your lack of service toward me.