TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EZK
CHAPTER:30
TITLE:Ezekiel 30
LABEL:1
VERSE:The word of Jehovah came again unto me, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Wail ye, Alas for the day!
LABEL:3
VERSE:For the day is near, even the day of Jehovah is near; it shall be a day of clouds, a time of the nations.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And a sword shall come upon Egypt, and anguish shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt; and they shall take away her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Ethiopia, and Put, and Lud, and all the mingled people, and Cub, and the children of the land that is in league, shall fall with them by the sword.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah: They also that uphold Egypt shall fall; and the pride of her power shall come down: from the tower of Seveneh shall they fall in it by the sword, saith the Lord Jehovah.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are wasted.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I have set a fire in Egypt, and all her helpers are destroyed.
LABEL:9
VERSE:In that day shall messengers go forth from before me in ships to make the careless Ethiopians afraid; and there shall be anguish upon them, as in the day of Egypt; for, lo, it cometh.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease, by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon.
LABEL:11
VERSE:He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall be brought in to destroy the land; and they shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And I will make the rivers dry, and will sell the land into the hand of evil men; and I will make the land desolate, and all that is therein, by the hand of strangers: I, Jehovah, have spoken it.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will also destroy the idols, and I will cause the images to cease from Memphis; and there shall be no more a prince from the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set a fire in Zoan, and will execute judgments upon No.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And I will pour my wrath upon Sin, the stronghold of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude of No.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And I will set a fire in Egypt: Sin shall be in great anguish, and No shall be broken up; and Memphis shall have adversaries in the day-time.
LABEL:17
VERSE:The young men of Aven and of Pi-beseth shall fall by the sword; and these cities shall go into captivity.
LABEL:18
VERSE:At Tehaphnehes also the day shall withdraw itself, when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt, and the pride of her power shall cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go into captivity.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Thus will I execute judgments upon Egypt; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh day of the month, that the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
LABEL:21
VERSE:Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and, lo, it hath not been bound up, to apply healing medicines, to put a bandage to bind it, that it be strong to hold the sword.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong arm, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And I will hold up the arms of the king of Babylon; and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.