TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EZK
CHAPTER:37
TITLE:Ezekiel 37
LABEL:1
VERSE:The hand of Jehovah was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of Jehovah, and set me down in the midst of the valley; and it was full of bones.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And he caused me to pass by them round about: and, behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, lo, they were very dry.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord Jehovah, thou knowest.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Again he said unto me, Prophesy over these bones, and say unto them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of Jehovah.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Thus saith the Lord Jehovah unto these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
LABEL:7
VERSE:So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and, behold, an earthquake; and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And I beheld, and, lo, there were sinews upon them, and flesh came up, and skin covered them above; but there was no breath in them.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.
LABEL:10
VERSE:So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great army.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Then he said unto me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Therefore prophesy, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, O my people; and I will bring you into the land of Israel.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And ye shall know that I am Jehovah, when I have opened your graves, and caused you to come up out of your graves, O my people.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And I will put my Spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I will place you in your own land: and ye shall know that I, Jehovah, have spoken it and performed it, saith Jehovah.
LABEL:15
VERSE:The word of Jehovah came again unto me, saying,
LABEL:16
VERSE:And thou, son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions:
LABEL:17
VERSE:and join them for thee one to another into one stick, that they may become one in thy hand.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And when the children of thy people shall speak unto thee, saying, Wilt thou not show us what thou meanest by these?
LABEL:19
VERSE:say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his companions; and I will put them with it, even with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in my hand.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And the sticks whereon thou writest shall be in thy hand before their eyes.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations, whither they are gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land:
LABEL:22
VERSE:and I will make them one nation in the land, upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all; and they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all;
LABEL:23
VERSE:neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will save them out of all their dwelling-places, wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so shall they be my people, and I will be their God.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And my servant David shall be king over them; and they all shall have one shepherd: they shall also walk in mine ordinances, and observe my statutes, and do them.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob my servant, wherein your fathers dwelt; and they shall dwell therein, they, and their children, and their children’s children, for ever: and David my servant shall be their prince for ever.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will place them, and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.
LABEL:27
VERSE:My tabernacle also shall be with them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And the nations shall know that I am Jehovah that sanctifieth Israel, when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them for evermore.