TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EZK
CHAPTER:7
TITLE:Ezekiel 7
LABEL:1
VERSE:Moreover the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:And thou, son of man, thus saith the Lord Jehovah unto the land of Israel, An end: the end is come upon the four corners of the land.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Now is the end upon thee, and I will send mine anger upon thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways; and I will bring upon thee all thine abominations.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And mine eye shall not spare thee, neither will I have pity; but I will bring thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee: and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: An evil, an only evil; behold, it cometh.
LABEL:6
VERSE:An end is come, the end is come; it awaketh against thee; behold, it cometh.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Thy doom is come unto thee, O inhabitant of the land: the time is come, the day is near, a day of tumult, and not of joyful shouting, upon the mountains.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Now will I shortly pour out my wrath upon thee, and accomplish mine anger against thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways; and I will bring upon thee all thine abominations.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will bring upon thee according to thy ways; and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I, Jehovah, do smite.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Behold, the day, behold, it cometh: thy doom is gone forth; the rod hath blossomed, pride hath budded.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness; none of them shall remain, nor of their multitude, nor of their wealth: neither shall there be eminency among them.
LABEL:12
VERSE:The time is come, the day draweth near: let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they be yet alive: for the vision is touching the whole multitude thereof, none shall return; neither shall any strengthen himself in the iniquity of his life.
LABEL:14
VERSE:They have blown the trumpet, and have made all ready; but none goeth to the battle; for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.
LABEL:15
VERSE:The sword is without, and the pestilence and the famine within: he that is in the field shall die with the sword; and he that is in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him.
LABEL:16
VERSE:But those of them that escape shall escape, and shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, every one in his iniquity.
LABEL:17
VERSE:All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water.
LABEL:18
VERSE:They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall cover them; and shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon all their heads.
LABEL:19
VERSE:They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be as an unclean thing; their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of Jehovah: they shall not satisfy their souls, neither fill their bowels; because it hath been the stumblingblock of their iniquity.
LABEL:20
VERSE:As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty; but they made the images of their abominations and their detestable things therein: therefore have I made it unto them as an unclean thing.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall profane it.
LABEL:22
VERSE:My face will I turn also from them, and they shall profane my secret place; and robbers shall enter into it, and profane it.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Make the chain; for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Wherefore I will bring the worst of the nations, and they shall possess their houses: I will also make the pride of the strong to cease; and their holy places shall be profaned.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Destruction cometh; and they shall seek peace, and there shall be none.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Mischief shall come upon mischief, and rumor shall be upon rumor; and they shall seek a vision of the prophet; but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders.
LABEL:27
VERSE:The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled: I will do unto them after their way, and according to their deserts will I judge them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.