TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EZK
CHAPTER:9
TITLE:Ezekiel 9
LABEL:1
VERSE:Then he cried in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Cause ye them that have charge over the city to draw near, every man with his destroying weapon in his hand.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And behold, six men came from the way of the upper gate, which lieth toward the north, every man with his slaughter weapon in his hand; and one man in the midst of them clothed in linen, with a writer’s inkhorn by his side. And they went in, and stood beside the brazen altar.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cherub, whereupon it was, to the threshold of the house: and he called to the man clothed in linen, who had the writer’s inkhorn by his side.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And Jehovah said unto him, Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry over all the abominations that are done in the midst thereof.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And to the others he said in my hearing, Go ye through the city after him, and smite: let not your eye spare, neither have ye pity;
LABEL:6
VERSE:slay utterly the old man, the young man and the virgin, and little children and women; but come not near any man upon whom is the mark: and begin at my sanctuary. Then they began at the old men that were before the house.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain: go ye forth. And they went forth, and smote in the city.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And it came to pass, while they were smiting, and I was left, that I fell upon my face, and cried, and said, Ah Lord Jehovah! wilt thou destroy all the residue of Israel in thy pouring out of thy wrath upon Jerusalem?
LABEL:9
VERSE:Then said he unto me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceeding great, and the land is full of blood, and the city full of wresting of judgment: for they say, Jehovah hath forsaken the land, and Jehovah seeth not.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And as for me also, mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity, but I will bring their way upon their head.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And, behold, the man clothed in linen, who had the inkhorn by his side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as thou hast commanded me.