TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1JN
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:1 John 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God; and such we are. For this cause the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Beloved, now are we children of God, and it is not yet made manifest what we shall be. We know that, if he shall be manifested, we shall be like him; for we shall see him even as he is.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And every one that hath this hope set on him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Every one that doeth sin doeth also lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And ye know that he was manifested to take away sins; and in him is no sin.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither knoweth him.
LABEL:7
VERSE:My little children, let no man lead you astray: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous:
LABEL:8
VERSE:he that doeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. To this end was the Son of God manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Whosoever is begotten of God doeth no sin, because his seed abideth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is begotten of God.
LABEL:10
VERSE:In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For this is the message which ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another:
LABEL:12
VERSE:not as Cain was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his works were evil, and his brother’s righteous.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Marvel not, brethren, if the world hateth you.
LABEL:14
VERSE:We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not abideth in death.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Hereby know we love, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But whoso hath the world’s goods, and beholdeth his brother in need, and shutteth up his compassion from him, how doth the love of God abide in him?
LABEL:18
VERSE:My little children, let us not love in word, neither with the tongue; but in deed and truth.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Hereby shall we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our heart before him:
LABEL:20
VERSE:because if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have boldness toward God;
LABEL:22
VERSE:and whatsoever we ask we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And this is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, even as he gave us commandment.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And he that keepeth his commandments abideth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he gave us.