TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:EPH
CHAPTER:5
TITLE:Ephesians 5
LABEL:1
VERSE:Be ye therefore followers of God, as dear children;
LABEL:2
VERSE:and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweetsmelling savour.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not be once named among you, as becometh saints;
LABEL:4
VERSE:neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient: but rather giving of thanks.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Let no man deceive you with vain words: for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Be not ye therefore partakers with them.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord: walk as children of light:
LABEL:9
VERSE:(for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth;)
LABEL:10
VERSE:proving what is acceptable unto the Lord.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret.
LABEL:13
VERSE:But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light: for whatsoever doth make manifest is light.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light.
LABEL:15
VERSE:See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
LABEL:16
VERSE:redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but be filled with the Spirit;
LABEL:19
VERSE:speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
LABEL:20
VERSE:giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;
LABEL:21
VERSE:submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church: and he is the saviour of the body.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in every thing.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it;
LABEL:26
VERSE:that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word,
LABEL:27
VERSE:that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.
LABEL:28
VERSE:So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For no man ever yet hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church:
LABEL:30
VERSE:for we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
LABEL:31
VERSE:For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.
LABEL:32
VERSE:This is a great mystery: but I speak concerning Christ and the church.
LABEL:33
VERSE:Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself; and the wife see that she reverence her husband.