TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:EPH
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Ephesians 6
SECTION:Domestic Relationships
LABEL:1
VERSE:Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Honour thy father and mother; which is the first commandment with promise;
LABEL:3
VERSE:that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto Christ;
LABEL:6
VERSE:not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart;
LABEL:7
VERSE:with good will doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men:
LABEL:8
VERSE:knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord, whether he be bond or free.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearing threatening: knowing that your Master also is in heaven; neither is there respect of persons with him.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness;
LABEL:15
VERSE:and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;
LABEL:16
VERSE:above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:
LABEL:18
VERSE:praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;
LABEL:19
VERSE:and for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel,
LABEL:20
VERSE:for which I am an ambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
LABEL:21
VERSE:But that ye also may know my affairs, and how I do, Tychicus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to you all things:
LABEL:22
VERSE:whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that ye might know our affairs, and that he might comfort your hearts.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen.
VERSE:Written from Rome unto the Ephesians by Tychicus.