TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:AMO
CHAPTER:5
TITLE:Amos 5
SECTION:The Worshippers of Beth-el
LABEL:1
VERSE:Hear ye this word which I take up against you, even a lamentation, O house of Israel.
LABEL:2
VERSE:The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise: she is forsaken upon her land; there is none to raise her up.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For thus saith the Lord GOD; The city that went out by a thousand shall leave an hundred, and that which went forth by an hundred shall leave ten, to the house of Israel.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For thus saith the LORD unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and ye shall live:
LABEL:5
VERSE:but seek not Beth-el, nor enter into Gilgal, and pass not to Beer-sheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Beth-el shall come to nought.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Seek the LORD, and ye shall live; lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and devour it, and there be none to quench it in Beth-el.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Ye who turn judgment to wormwood, and leave off righteousness in the earth,
LABEL:8
VERSE:seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark with night: that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: The LORD  is his name:
LABEL:9
VERSE:that strengtheneth the spoiled against the strong, so that the spoiled shall come against the fortress.
LABEL:10
VERSE:They hate him that rebuketh in the gate, and they abhor him that speaketh uprightly.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Forasmuch therefore as your treading is upon the poor, and ye take from him burdens of wheat: ye have built houses of hewn stone, but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted pleasant vineyards, but ye shall not drink wine of them.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For I know your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins: they afflict the just, they take a bribe, and they turn aside the poor in the gate from their right.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Therefore the prudent shall keep silence in that time; for it is an evil time.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the LORD, the God of hosts, shall be with you, as ye have spoken.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish judgment in the gate: it may be that the LORD God of hosts will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Therefore the LORD, the God of hosts, the Lord, saith thus; Wailing shall be in all streets; and they shall say in all the highways, Alas! alas! and they shall call the husbandman to mourning, and such as are skilful of lamentation to wailing.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And in all vineyards shall be wailing: for I will pass through thee, saith the LORD.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Woe unto you that desire the day of the LORD! to what end is it for you? the day of the LORD  is darkness, and not light.
LABEL:19
VERSE:As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Shall not the day of the LORD  be darkness, and not light? even very dark, and no brightness in it?
LABEL:21
VERSE:I hate, I despise your feast days, and I will not smell in your solemn assemblies.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Though ye offer me burnt offerings and your meat offerings, I will not accept them: neither will I regard the peace offerings of your fat beasts.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs; for I will not hear the melody of thy viols.
LABEL:24
VERSE:But let judgment run down as waters, and righteousness as a mighty stream.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Have ye offered unto me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, O house of Israel?
LABEL:26
VERSE:But ye have borne the tabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your images, the star of your god, which ye made to yourselves.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus, saith the LORD, whose name is The God of hosts.