TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:MRK
CHAPTER:7
TITLE:Mark 7
LABEL:1
VERSE:Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered together to him, having come from Jerusalem.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Now when they saw some of his disciples eating bread with defiled, that is unwashed, hands, they found fault.
LABEL:3
VERSE:(For the Pharisees and all the Jews don’t eat unless they wash their hands and forearms, holding to the tradition of the elders.
LABEL:4
VERSE:They don’t eat when they come from the marketplace unless they bathe themselves, and there are many other things which they have received to hold to: washings of cups, pitchers, bronze vessels, and couches.)
LABEL:5
VERSE:The Pharisees and the scribes asked him, “Why don’t your disciples walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with unwashed hands?”
LABEL:6
VERSE:He answered them, “Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written,
VERSE:‘This people honors me with their lips,
VERSE:but their heart is far from me.
LABEL:7
VERSE:  They worship me in vain,
VERSE:teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’
LABEL:8
VERSE:  “For you set aside the commandment of God, and hold tightly to the tradition of men—the washing of pitchers and cups, and you do many other such things.”
LABEL:9
VERSE:He said to them, “Full well do you reject the commandment of God, that you may keep your tradition.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother;’  and, ‘He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.’
LABEL:11
VERSE:But you say, ‘If a man tells his father or his mother, “Whatever profit you might have received from me is Corban,”’” that is to say, given to God,
LABEL:12
VERSE:“then you no longer allow him to do anything for his father or his mother,
LABEL:13
VERSE:making void the word of God by your tradition which you have handed down. You do many things like this.”
LABEL:14
VERSE:He called all the multitude to himself and said to them, “Hear me, all of you, and understand.
LABEL:15
VERSE:There is nothing from outside of the man that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man are those that defile the man.
LABEL:16
VERSE:If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear!”
LABEL:17
VERSE:When he had entered into a house away from the multitude, his disciples asked him about the parable.
LABEL:18
VERSE:He said to them, “Are you also without understanding? Don’t you perceive that whatever goes into the man from outside can’t defile him,
LABEL:19
VERSE:because it doesn’t go into his heart, but into his stomach, then into the latrine, making all foods clean?”
LABEL:20
VERSE:He said, “That which proceeds out of the man, that defiles the man.
LABEL:21
VERSE:For from within, out of the hearts of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, sexual sins, murders, thefts,
LABEL:22
VERSE:covetings, wickedness, deceit, lustful desires, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, and foolishness.
LABEL:23
VERSE:All these evil things come from within and defile the man.”
LABEL:24
VERSE:From there he arose and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. He entered into a house and didn’t want anyone to know it, but he couldn’t escape notice.
LABEL:25
VERSE:For a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. She begged him that he would cast the demon out of her daughter.
LABEL:27
VERSE:But Jesus said to her, “Let the children be filled first, for it is not appropriate to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”
LABEL:28
VERSE:But she answered him, “Yes, Lord. Yet even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.”
LABEL:29
VERSE:He said to her, “For this saying, go your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter.”
LABEL:30
VERSE:She went away to her house, and found the child having been laid on the bed, with the demon gone out.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Again he departed from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came to the sea of Galilee through the middle of the region of Decapolis.
LABEL:32
VERSE:They brought to him one who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech. They begged him to lay his hand on him.
LABEL:33
VERSE:He took him aside from the multitude privately and put his fingers into his ears; and he spat and touched his tongue.
LABEL:34
VERSE:Looking up to heaven, he sighed, and said to him, “Ephphatha!”  that is, “Be opened!”
LABEL:35
VERSE:Immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was released, and he spoke clearly.
LABEL:36
VERSE:He commanded them that they should tell no one, but the more he commanded them, so much the more widely they proclaimed it.
LABEL:37
VERSE:They were astonished beyond measure, saying, “He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf hear and the mute speak!”