TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:Genesis 12
LABEL:1
VERSE:Now Jehovah said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto the land that I will show thee:
LABEL:2
VERSE:and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and be thou a blessing:
LABEL:3
VERSE:and I will bless them that bless thee, and him that curseth thee will I curse: and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
LABEL:4
VERSE:So Abram went, as Jehovah had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother’s son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Shechem, unto the oak of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And Jehovah appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto Jehovah, who appeared unto him.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And he removed from thence unto the mountain on the east of Beth-el, and pitched his tent, having Beth-el on the west, and Ai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto Jehovah, and called upon the name of Jehovah.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the South.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was sore in the land.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon:
LABEL:12
VERSE:and it will come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they will say, This is his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister; that it may be well with me for thy sake, and that my soul may live because of thee.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And the princes of Pharaoh saw her, and praised her to Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And he dealt well with Abram for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he-asses, and men-servants, and maid-servants, and she-asses, and camels.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And Jehovah plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram’s wife.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?
LABEL:19
VERSE:why saidst thou, She is my sister, so that I took her to be my wife? now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And Pharaoh gave men charge concerning him: and they brought him on the way, and his wife, and all that he had.