TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Genesis 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:And the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And on the seventh day God finished his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And God blessed the seventh day, and hallowed it; because that in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made.
LABEL:4
VERSE:These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that Jehovah God made earth and heaven.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And no plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up; for Jehovah God had not caused it to rain upon the earth: and there was not a man to till the ground;
LABEL:6
VERSE:but there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And Jehovah God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And Jehovah God planted a garden eastward, in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And out of the ground made Jehovah God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became four heads.
LABEL:11
VERSE:The name of the first is Pishon: that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold;
LABEL:12
VERSE:and the gold of that land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Cush.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which goeth in front of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And Jehovah God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And Jehovah God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:
LABEL:17
VERSE:but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And Jehovah God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a help meet for him.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And out of the ground Jehovah God formed every beast of the field, and every bird of the heavens; and brought them unto the man to see what he would call them: and whatsoever the man called every living creature, that was the name thereof.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And the man gave names to all cattle, and to the birds of the heavens, and to every beast of the field; but for man there was not found a help meet for him.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And Jehovah God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept; and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof:
LABEL:22
VERSE:and the rib, which Jehovah God had taken from the man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And the man said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.