TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:20
TITLE:Genesis 20
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the land of the South, and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur; and he sojourned in Gerar.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, and said to him, Behold, thou art but a dead man, because of the woman whom thou hast taken; for she is a man’s wife.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Now Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, Lord, wilt thou slay even a righteous nation?
LABEL:5
VERSE:Said he not himself unto me, She is my sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the integrity of my heart and the innocency of my hands have I done this.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And God said unto him in the dream, Yea, I know that in the integrity of thy heart thou hast done this, and I also withheld thee from sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Now therefore restore the man’s wife; for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were sore afraid.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and wherein have I sinned against thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing?
LABEL:11
VERSE:And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife’s sake.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And moreover she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife:
LABEL:13
VERSE:and it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father’s house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou shalt show unto me: at every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my brother.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And Abimelech took sheep and oxen, and men-servants and women-servants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where it pleaseth thee.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver: behold, it is for thee a covering of the eyes to all that are with thee; and in respect of all thou art righted.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maid-servants; and they bare children.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For Jehovah had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.