TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:22
TITLE:Genesis 22
LABEL:1
VERSE:And it came to pass after these things, that God did prove Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham; and he said, Here am I.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, whom thou lovest, even Isaac, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for a burnt-offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And Abraham rose early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son; and he clave the wood for the burnt-offering, and rose up, and went unto the place of which God had told him.
LABEL:4
VERSE:On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder; and we will worship, and come again to you.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And Abraham took the wood of the burnt-offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took in his hand the fire and the knife; and they went both of them together.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt-offering?
LABEL:8
VERSE:And Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt-offering, my son: so they went both of them together.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, upon the wood.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And the angel of Jehovah called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him; for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt-offering in the stead of his son.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh: as it is said to this day, In the mount of Jehovah it shall be provided.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And the angel of Jehovah called unto Abraham a second time out of heaven,
LABEL:16
VERSE:and said, By myself have I sworn, saith Jehovah, because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son,
LABEL:17
VERSE:that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand which is upon the sea-shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies;
LABEL:18
VERSE:and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.
LABEL:19
VERSE:So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beer-sheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beer-sheba.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she also hath borne children unto thy brother Nahor:
LABEL:21
VERSE:Uz his first-born, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
LABEL:22
VERSE:and Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight did Milcah bear to Nahor, Abraham’s brother.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she also bare Tebah, and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah.