TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:9
TITLE:Genesis 9
LABEL:1
VERSE:And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens; with all wherewith the ground teemeth, and all the fishes of the sea, into your hand are they delivered.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Every moving thing that liveth shall be food for you; as the green herb have I given you all.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And surely your blood, the blood of your lives, will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it: and at the hand of man, even at the hand of every man’s brother, will I require the life of man.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying,
LABEL:9
VERSE:And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you;
LABEL:10
VERSE:and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you; of all that go out of the ark, even every beast of the earth.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of the flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations:
LABEL:13
VERSE:I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud,
LABEL:15
VERSE:and I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And the sons of Noah, that went forth from the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.
LABEL:19
VERSE:These three were the sons of Noah: and of these was the whole earth overspread.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And Noah began to be a husbandman, and planted a vineyard:
LABEL:21
VERSE:and he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father’s nakedness.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his youngest son had done unto him.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And he said,
VERSE:Cursed be Canaan;
VERSE:A servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And he said,
VERSE:Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Shem;
VERSE:And let Canaan be his servant.
LABEL:27
VERSE:God enlarge Japheth,
VERSE:And let him dwell in the tents of Shem;
VERSE:And let Canaan be his servant.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.