TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:2CO
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:2 Corinthians 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:But I determined this for myself, that I would not come again to you with sorrow.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For if I make you sorry, who then is he that maketh me glad but he that is made sorry by me?
LABEL:3
VERSE:And I wrote this very thing, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of you all.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears; not that ye should be made sorry, but that ye might know the love which I have more abundantly unto you.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But if any hath caused sorrow, he hath caused sorrow, not to me, but in part (that I press not too heavily) to you all.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Sufficient to such a one is this punishment which was inflicted by the many;
LABEL:7
VERSE:so that contrariwise ye should rather forgive him and comfort him, lest by any means such a one should be swallowed up with his overmuch sorrow.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Wherefore I beseech you to confirm your love toward him.
LABEL:9
VERSE:For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether ye are obedient in all things.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But to whom ye forgive anything, I forgive also: for what I also have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, for your sakes have I forgiven it in the presence of Christ;
LABEL:11
VERSE:that no advantage may be gained over us by Satan: for we are not ignorant of his devices.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Now when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ, and when a door was opened unto me in the Lord,
LABEL:13
VERSE:I had no relief for my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of them, I went forth into Macedonia.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But thanks be unto God, who always leadeth us in triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest through us the savor of his knowledge in every place.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For we are a sweet savor of Christ unto God, in them that are saved, and in them that perish;
LABEL:16
VERSE:to the one a savor from death unto death; to the other a savor from life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things?
LABEL:17
VERSE:For we are not as the many, corrupting the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, speak we in Christ.