TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EPH
CHAPTER:5
TITLE:Ephesians 5
LABEL:1
VERSE:Be ye therefore imitators of God, as beloved children;
LABEL:2
VERSE:and walk in love, even as Christ also loved you, and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for an odor of a sweet smell.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as becometh saints;
LABEL:4
VERSE:nor filthiness, nor foolish talking, or jesting, which are not befitting: but rather giving of thanks.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For this ye know of a surety, that no fornicator, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Let no man deceive you with empty words: for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Be not ye therefore partakers with them;
LABEL:8
VERSE:for ye were once darkness, but are now light in the Lord: walk as children of light
LABEL:9
VERSE:(for the fruit of the light is in all goodness and righteousness and truth),
LABEL:10
VERSE:proving what is well-pleasing unto the Lord;
LABEL:11
VERSE:and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them;
LABEL:12
VERSE:for the things which are done by them in secret it is a shame even to speak of.
LABEL:13
VERSE:But all things when they are reproved are made manifest by the light: for everything that is made manifest is light.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Wherefore he saith, Awake, thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall shine upon thee.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Look therefore carefully how ye walk, not as unwise, but as wise;
LABEL:16
VERSE:redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Wherefore be ye not foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And be not drunken with wine, wherein is riot, but be filled with the Spirit;
LABEL:19
VERSE:speaking one to another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord;
LABEL:20
VERSE:giving thanks always for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father;
LABEL:21
VERSE:subjecting yourselves one to another in the fear of Christ.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Wives, be in subjection unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, being himself the saviour of the body.
LABEL:24
VERSE:But as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives also be to their husbands in everything.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself up for it;
LABEL:26
VERSE:that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it by the washing of water with the word,
LABEL:27
VERSE:that he might present the church to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Even so ought husbands also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his own wife loveth himself:
LABEL:29
VERSE:for no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as Christ also the church;
LABEL:30
VERSE:because we are members of his body.
LABEL:31
VERSE:For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife; and the two shall become one flesh.
LABEL:32
VERSE:This mystery is great: but I speak in regard of Christ and of the church.
LABEL:33
VERSE:Nevertheless do ye also severally love each one his own wife even as himself; and let the wife see that she fear her husband.