TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EPH
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Ephesians 6
LABEL:1
VERSE:Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Honor thy father and mother (which is the first commandment with promise),
LABEL:3
VERSE:that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but nurture them in the chastening and admonition of the Lord.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Servants, be obedient unto them that according to the flesh are your masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto Christ;
LABEL:6
VERSE:not in the way of eyeservice, as men-pleasers; but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart;
LABEL:7
VERSE:with good will doing service, as unto the Lord, and not unto men:
LABEL:8
VERSE:knowing that whatsoever good thing each one doeth, the same shall he receive again from the Lord, whether he be bond or free.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, and forbear threatening: knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and there is no respect of persons with him.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Finally, be strong in the Lord, and in the strength of his might.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Wherefore take up the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having done all, to stand.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Stand therefore, having girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
LABEL:15
VERSE:and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace;
LABEL:16
VERSE:withal taking up the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil one.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:
LABEL:18
VERSE:with all prayer and supplication praying at all seasons in the Spirit, and watching thereunto in all perseverance and supplication for all the saints,
LABEL:19
VERSE:and on my behalf, that utterance may be given unto me in opening my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel,
LABEL:20
VERSE:for which I am an ambassador in chains; that in it I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
LABEL:21
VERSE:But that ye also may know my affairs, how I do, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to you all things:
LABEL:22
VERSE:whom I have sent unto you for this very purpose, that ye may know our state, and that he may comfort your hearts.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ with a love incorruptible.