TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Romans 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God,
LABEL:2
VERSE:(which he had promised afore by his prophets in the holy scriptures,)
LABEL:3
VERSE:concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh;
LABEL:4
VERSE:and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead:
LABEL:5
VERSE:by whom we have received grace and apostleship, for obedience to the faith among all nations, for his name:
LABEL:6
VERSE:among whom are ye also the called of Jesus Christ:
LABEL:7
VERSE:to all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
SECTION:The Gospel of Salvation
LABEL:8
VERSE:First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world.
LABEL:9
VERSE:For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers;
LABEL:10
VERSE:making request, if by any means now at length I might have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift, to the end ye may be established;
LABEL:12
VERSE:that is, that I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, (but was let hitherto,) that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to the wise, and to the unwise.
LABEL:15
VERSE:So, as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
LABEL:17
VERSE:For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith.
SECTION:The State of the World
LABEL:18
VERSE:For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in unrighteousness;
LABEL:19
VERSE:because that which may be known of God is manifest in them; for God hath shewed it unto them.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse:
LABEL:21
VERSE:because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools,
LABEL:23
VERSE:And changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creeping things.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves:
LABEL:25
VERSE:who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed for ever. Amen.
LABEL:26
VERSE:For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature:
LABEL:27
VERSE:and likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of their error which was meet.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not convenient;
LABEL:29
VERSE:being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity; whisperers,
LABEL:30
VERSE:backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
LABEL:31
VERSE:without understanding, covenantbreakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful:
LABEL:32
VERSE:who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them.