TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:11
TITLE:Romans 11
SECTION:The Divine Purpose in It
LABEL:1
VERSE:I say then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
LABEL:2
VERSE:God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew. Wot ye not what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession to God against Israel, saying,
LABEL:3
VERSE:Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved to myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to the image of Baal.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And if by grace, then is it no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. But if it be of works, then is it no more grace: otherwise work is no more work.
LABEL:7
VERSE:What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for; but the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded
LABEL:8
VERSE:(according as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear;) unto this day.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And David saith,
VERSE:Let their table be made a snare, and a trap,
VERSE:And a stumblingblock, and a recompence unto them:
LABEL:10
VERSE:Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see,
VERSE:And bow down their back alway.
LABEL:11
VERSE:I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall? God forbid: but rather through their fall salvation is come unto the Gentiles, for to provoke them to jealousy.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Now if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fulness?
LABEL:13
VERSE:For I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am the apostle of the Gentiles, I magnify mine office:
LABEL:14
VERSE:if by any means I may provoke to emulation them which are my flesh, and might save some of them.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead?
LABEL:16
VERSE:For if the firstfruit be holy, the lump is also holy: and if the root be holy, so are the branches.
SECTION:The Grafted Tree
LABEL:17
VERSE:And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou, being a wild olive tree, wert graffed in among them, and with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive tree;
LABEL:18
VERSE:boast not against the branches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Thou wilt say then, The branches were broken off, that I might be graffed in.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not highminded, but fear:
LABEL:21
VERSE:for if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare not thee.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be graffed in: for God is able to graff them in again.
LABEL:24
VERSE:For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by nature, and wert graffed contrary to nature into a good olive tree: how much more shall these, which be the natural branches, be graffed into their own olive tree?
LABEL:25
VERSE:For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits; that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written,
VERSE:There shall come out of Sion the Deliverer,
VERSE:And shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob:
LABEL:27
VERSE:For this is my covenant unto them,
VERSE:When I shall take away their sins.
LABEL:28
VERSE:As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes: but as touching the election, they are beloved for the fathers' sakes.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For the gifts and calling of God are without repentance.
LABEL:30
VERSE:For as ye in times past have not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their unbelief:
LABEL:31
VERSE:even so have these also now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.
LABEL:32
VERSE:For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon all.
LABEL:33
VERSE:O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out!
LABEL:34
VERSE:For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor?
LABEL:35
VERSE:Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again?
LABEL:36
VERSE:For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amen.