TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:Romans 12
SECTION:Christian Living
LABEL:1
VERSE:I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office:
LABEL:5
VERSE:so we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith;
LABEL:7
VERSE:or ministry, let us wait on our ministering: or he that teacheth, on teaching;
LABEL:8
VERSE:or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.
LABEL:9
VERSE:  Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in honour preferring one another;
LABEL:11
VERSE:not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord;
LABEL:12
VERSE:rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing instant in prayer;
LABEL:13
VERSE:distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Bless them which persecute you: bless, and curse not.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men.
LABEL:18
VERSE:If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.