TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:14
TITLE:Romans 14
SECTION:Christian Charity and Unity
LABEL:1
VERSE:Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For one believeth that he may eat all things: another, who is weak, eateth herbs.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not; and let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him stand.
LABEL:5
VERSE:One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.
LABEL:6
VERSE:He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and he that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it. He that eateth, eateth to the Lord, for he giveth God thanks; and he that eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks.
LABEL:7
VERSE:For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's.
LABEL:9
VERSE:For to this end Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he might be Lord both of the dead and living.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For it is written,
VERSE:As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me,
VERSE:And every tongue shall confess to God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God.
SECTION:The Christian Spirit
LABEL:13
VERSE:Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge this rather, that no man put a stumblingblock or an occasion to fall in his brother's way.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thing to be unclean, to him it is unclean.
LABEL:15
VERSE:But if thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Let not then your good be evil spoken of:
LABEL:17
VERSE:for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For he that in these things serveth Christ is acceptable to God, and approved of men.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For meat destroy not the work of God. All things indeed are pure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence.
LABEL:21
VERSE:It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor any thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith: for whatsoever is not of faith is sin.