TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Romans 6
SECTION:Complete Renewal
LABEL:1
VERSE:What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?
LABEL:2
VERSE:God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?
LABEL:3
VERSE:Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?
LABEL:4
VERSE:Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:
LABEL:6
VERSE:knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.
LABEL:7
VERSE:For he that is dead is freed from sin.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:
LABEL:9
VERSE:knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace.
LABEL:15
VERSE:What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?
LABEL:17
VERSE:But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness.
LABEL:19
VERSE:I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness.
LABEL:21
VERSE:What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.