TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:HAG
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Haggai 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:In the seventh month, in the twenty-first day of the month, Yahweh’s word came by Haggai the prophet, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:“Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying,
LABEL:3
VERSE:‘Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? How do you see it now? Isn’t it in your eyes as nothing?
LABEL:4
VERSE:Yet now be strong, Zerubbabel,’ says Yahweh. ‘Be strong, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest. Be strong, all you people of the land,’ says Yahweh, ‘and work, for I am with you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.
LABEL:5
VERSE:This is the word that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt, and my Spirit lived among you. ‘Don’t be afraid.’
LABEL:6
VERSE:For this is what Yahweh of Armies says: ‘Yet once more, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the dry land;
LABEL:7
VERSE:and I will shake all nations. The treasure of all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory, says Yahweh of Armies.
LABEL:8
VERSE:The silver is mine, and the gold is mine,’ says Yahweh of Armies.
LABEL:9
VERSE:‘The latter glory of this house will be greater than the former,’ says Yahweh of Armies; ‘and in this place I will give peace,’ says Yahweh of Armies.”
LABEL:10
VERSE:In the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, Yahweh’s word came by Haggai the prophet, saying,
LABEL:11
VERSE:“Yahweh of Armies says: Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying,
LABEL:12
VERSE:‘If someone carries holy meat in the fold of his garment, and with his fold touches bread, stew, wine, oil, or any food, will it become holy?’”
VERSE:The priests answered, “No.”
LABEL:13
VERSE:Then Haggai said, “If one who is unclean by reason of a dead body touches any of these, will it be unclean?”
VERSE:The priests answered, “It will be unclean.”
LABEL:14
VERSE:Then Haggai answered, “‘So is this people, and so is this nation before me,’ says Yahweh; ‘and so is every work of their hands. That which they offer there is unclean.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Now, please consider from this day and backward, before a stone was laid on a stone in Yahweh’s temple.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Through all that time, when one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were only ten. When one came to the wine vat to draw out fifty, there were only twenty.
LABEL:17
VERSE:I struck you with blight, mildew, and hail in all the work of your hands; yet you didn’t turn to me,’ says Yahweh.
LABEL:18
VERSE:‘Consider, please, from this day and backward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, since the day that the foundation of Yahweh’s temple was laid, consider it.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Is the seed yet in the barn? Yes, the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree haven’t produced. From today I will bless you.’”
LABEL:20
VERSE:Yahweh’s word came the second time to Haggai in the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying,
LABEL:21
VERSE:“Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, ‘I will shake the heavens and the earth.
LABEL:22
VERSE:I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms. I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations. I will overthrow the chariots and those who ride in them. The horses and their riders will come down, everyone by the sword of his brother.
LABEL:23
VERSE:In that day, says Yahweh of Armies, I will take you, Zerubbabel my servant, the son of Shealtiel,’ says Yahweh, ‘and will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.”