TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ECC
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Ecclesiastes 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity.
LABEL:3
VERSE:What profit hath a man of all his labour which he taketh under the sun?
LABEL:4
VERSE:One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh: but the earth abideth for ever.
LABEL:5
VERSE:The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he arose.
LABEL:6
VERSE:The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north; it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits.
LABEL:7
VERSE:All the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea is not full; unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again.
LABEL:8
VERSE:All things are full of labour; man cannot utter it: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.
LABEL:9
VERSE:The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Is there any thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? it hath been already of old time, which was before us.
LABEL:11
VERSE:There is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after.
SECTION:The Vanity of Knowledge
LABEL:12
VERSE:I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven: this sore travail hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and, behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit.
LABEL:15
VERSE:That which is crooked cannot be made straight: and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.
LABEL:16
VERSE:I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to great estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that have been before me in Jerusalem: yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.