TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ECC
CHAPTER:10
TITLE:Ecclesiastes 10
LABEL:1
VERSE:Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour: so doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honour.
LABEL:2
VERSE:A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Yea also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.
LABEL:4
VERSE:If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for yielding pacifieth great offences.
LABEL:5
VERSE:There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error which proceedeth from the ruler:
LABEL:6
VERSE:folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in low place.
LABEL:7
VERSE:I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants upon the earth.
LABEL:8
VERSE:He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh an hedge, a serpent shall bite him.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith; and he that cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby.
LABEL:10
VERSE:If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbler is no better.
LABEL:12
VERSE:The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.
LABEL:13
VERSE:The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.
LABEL:14
VERSE:A fool also is full of words: a man cannot tell what shall be; and what shall be after him, who can tell him?
LABEL:15
VERSE:The labour of the foolish wearieth every one of them, because he knoweth not how to go to the city.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!
LABEL:17
VERSE:Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!
LABEL:18
VERSE:By much slothfulness the building decayeth; and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through.
LABEL:19
VERSE:A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry: but money answereth all things.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Curse not the king, no not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.