TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ECC
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:Ecclesiastes 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:So I returned, and considered all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead more than the living which are yet alive.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Yea, better is he than both they, which hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbour. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit.
LABEL:5
VERSE:The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Better is an handful with quietness, than both the hands full with travail and vexation of spirit.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun.
LABEL:8
VERSE:There is one alone, and there is not a second; yea, he hath neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour; neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whom do I labour, and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yea, it is a sore travail.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone?
LABEL:12
VERSE:And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king, who will no more be admonished.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also he that is born in his kingdom becometh poor.
LABEL:15
VERSE:I considered all the living which walk under the sun, with the second child that shall stand up in his stead.
LABEL:16
VERSE:There is no end of all the people, even of all that have been before them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit.