TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ECC
CHAPTER:7
TITLE:Ecclesiastes 7
SECTION:The Vanity of Fame
LABEL:1
VERSE:A good name is better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth.
LABEL:2
VERSE:It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to his heart.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.
LABEL:4
VERSE:The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
LABEL:5
VERSE:  It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad; and a gift destroyeth the heart.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not enquire wisely concerning this.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit to them that see the sun.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have it.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked?
LABEL:14
VERSE:In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.
LABEL:15
VERSE:All things have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Be not righteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: why shouldest thou destroy thyself?
LABEL:17
VERSE:Be not over much wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?
LABEL:18
VERSE:It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from this withdraw not thine hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For there is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken; lest thou hear thy servant curse thee:
LABEL:22
VERSE:for oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.
SECTION:The Quest for Wisdom
LABEL:23
VERSE:All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.
LABEL:24
VERSE:That which is far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out?
LABEL:25
VERSE:I applied mine heart to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness:
LABEL:26
VERSE:and I find more bitter than death the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Behold, this have I found, saith the Preacher, counting one by one, to find out the account:
LABEL:28
VERSE:which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.
LABEL:29
VERSE:Lo, this only have I found, that God hath made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.