TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:MAT
CHAPTER:25
TITLE:Matthew 25
LABEL:1
VERSE:Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And five of them were foolish, and five were wise.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For the foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them:
LABEL:4
VERSE:but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Now while the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But at midnight there is a cry, Behold, the bridegroom! Come ye forth to meet him.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are going out.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But the wise answered, saying, Peradventure there will not be enough for us and you: go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And while they went away to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage feast: and the door was shut.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
LABEL:12
VERSE:But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Watch therefore, for ye know not the day nor the hour.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For it is as when a man, going into another country, called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one; to each according to his several ability; and he went on his journey.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Straightway he that received the five talents went and traded with them, and made other five talents.
LABEL:17
VERSE:In like manner he also that received the two gained other two.
LABEL:18
VERSE:But he that received the one went away and digged in the earth, and hid his lord’s money.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Now after a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and maketh a reckoning with them.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And he that received the five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: lo, I have gained other five talents.
LABEL:21
VERSE:His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And he also that received the two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: lo, I have gained other two talents.
LABEL:23
VERSE:His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And he also that had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man, reaping where thou didst not sow, and gathering where thou didst not scatter;
LABEL:25
VERSE:and I was afraid, and went away and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, thou hast thine own.
LABEL:26
VERSE:But his lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I did not scatter;
LABEL:27
VERSE:thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back mine own with interest.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Take ye away therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him that hath the ten talents.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken away.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And cast ye out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
LABEL:31
VERSE:But when the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the angels with him, then shall he sit on the throne of his glory:
LABEL:32
VERSE:and before him shall be gathered all the nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as the shepherd separateth the sheep from the goats;
LABEL:33
VERSE:and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
LABEL:34
VERSE:Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world:
LABEL:35
VERSE:for I was hungry, and ye gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in;
LABEL:36
VERSE:naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me.
LABEL:37
VERSE:Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungry, and fed thee? or athirst, and gave thee drink?
LABEL:38
VERSE:And when saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee?
LABEL:39
VERSE:And when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?
LABEL:40
VERSE:And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it unto one of these my brethren, even these least, ye did it unto me.
LABEL:41
VERSE:Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels:
LABEL:42
VERSE:for I was hungry, and ye did not give me to eat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink;
LABEL:43
VERSE:I was a stranger, and ye took me not in; naked, and ye clothed me not; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not.
LABEL:44
VERSE:Then shall they also answer, saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungry, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee?
LABEL:45
VERSE:Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of these least, ye did it not unto me.
LABEL:46
VERSE:And these shall go away into eternal punishment: but the righteous into eternal life.