TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:11
TITLE:1 Corinthians 11
LABEL:1
VERSE:Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ.
SECTION:Christian Worship
LABEL:2
VERSE:Now I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things, and keep the ordinances, as I delivered them to you.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoureth his head.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered dishonoureth her head: for that is even all one as if she were shaven.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For if the woman be not covered, let her also be shorn: but if it be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered.
LABEL:7
VERSE:For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For the man is not of the woman; but the woman of the man.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because of the angels.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Judge in yourselves: is it comely that a woman pray unto God uncovered?
LABEL:14
VERSE:Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?
LABEL:15
VERSE:But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a covering.
LABEL:16
VERSE:But if any man seem to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God.
SECTION:The Lord's Supper
LABEL:17
VERSE:Now in this that I declare unto you I praise you not, that ye come together not for the better, but for the worse.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you; and I partly believe it.
LABEL:19
VERSE:For there must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may be made manifest among you.
LABEL:20
VERSE:When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper.
LABEL:21
VERSE:For in eating every one taketh before other his own supper: and one is hungry, and another is drunken.
LABEL:22
VERSE:What? have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or despise ye the church of God, and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? shall I praise you in this? I praise you not.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, That the Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took bread:
LABEL:24
VERSE:and when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you: this do in remembrance of me.
LABEL:25
VERSE:After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood: this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.
LABEL:26
VERSE:For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do shew the Lord's death till he come.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.
LABEL:28
VERSE:But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body.
LABEL:30
VERSE:For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep.
LABEL:31
VERSE:For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged.
LABEL:32
VERSE:But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world.
LABEL:33
VERSE:Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one for another.
LABEL:34
VERSE:And if any man hunger, let him eat at home; that ye come not together unto condemnation. And the rest will I set in order when I come.