TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:1 Corinthians 12
SECTION:Spiritual Gifts
LABEL:1
VERSE:Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Ye know that ye were Gentiles, carried away unto these dumb idols, even as ye were led.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all.
LABEL:7
VERSE:But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit;
LABEL:9
VERSE:to another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit;
LABEL:10
VERSE:to another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues:
LABEL:11
VERSE:but all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body: so also is Christ.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For the body is not one member, but many.
LABEL:15
VERSE:If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?
LABEL:16
VERSE:And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?
LABEL:17
VERSE:If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?
LABEL:18
VERSE:But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And if they were all one member, where were the body?
LABEL:20
VERSE:But now are they many members, yet but one body.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee: nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Nay, much more those members of the body, which seem to be more feeble, are necessary:
LABEL:23
VERSE:and those members of the body, which we think to be less honourable, upon these we bestow more abundant honour; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness.
LABEL:24
VERSE:For our comely parts have no need: but God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honour to that part which lacked:
LABEL:25
VERSE:that there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice with it.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.
LABEL:29
VERSE:Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of miracles?
LABEL:30
VERSE:Have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?
LABEL:31
VERSE:But covet earnestly the best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way.