TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:1 Corinthians 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For I determined not to know any thing among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power:
LABEL:5
VERSE:that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect: yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to nought:
LABEL:7
VERSE:but we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory:
LABEL:8
VERSE:which none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But as it is written,
VERSE:Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard,
VERSE:Neither have entered into the heart of man,
VERSE:The things which God hath prepared for them that love him.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned.
LABEL:15
VERSE:But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.