TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:1 Corinthians 6
LABEL:1
VERSE:Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unjust, and not before the saints?
LABEL:2
VERSE:Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?
LABEL:3
VERSE:Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to this life?
LABEL:4
VERSE:If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church.
LABEL:5
VERSE:I speak to your shame. Is it so, that there is not a wise man among you? no, not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren?
LABEL:6
VERSE:But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why do ye not rather take wrong? Why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded?
LABEL:8
VERSE:Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind,
LABEL:10
VERSE:nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And such were some of you: but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient: all things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And God hath both raised up the Lord, and will also raise up us by his own power.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid.
LABEL:16
VERSE:What? know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body? for two, saith he, shall be one flesh.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body.
LABEL:19
VERSE:What? know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own?
LABEL:20
VERSE:For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God's.