TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JHN
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:John 12
LABEL:1
VERSE:Jesus therefore six days before the passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus raised from the dead.
LABEL:2
VERSE:So they made him a supper there: and Martha served; but Lazarus was one of them that sat at meat with him.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Mary therefore took a pound of ointment of pure nard, very precious, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, that should betray him, saith,
LABEL:5
VERSE:Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred shillings, and given to the poor?
LABEL:6
VERSE:Now this he said, not because he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and having the bag took away what was put therein.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Jesus therefore said, Suffer her to keep it against the day of my burying.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For the poor ye have always with you; but me ye have not always.
LABEL:9
VERSE:The common people therefore of the Jews learned that he was there: and they came, not for Jesus’ sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But the chief priests took counsel that they might put Lazarus also to death;
LABEL:11
VERSE:because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus.
LABEL:12
VERSE:On the morrow a great multitude that had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
LABEL:13
VERSE:took the branches of the palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried out, Hosanna: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And Jesus, having found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written,
LABEL:15
VERSE:Fear not, daughter of Zion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass’s colt.
LABEL:16
VERSE:These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him.
LABEL:17
VERSE:The multitude therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, bare witness.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For this cause also the multitude went and met him, for that they heard that he had done this sign.
LABEL:19
VERSE:The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Behold how ye prevail nothing; lo, the world is gone after him.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Now there were certain Greeks among those that went up to worship at the feast:
LABEL:21
VERSE:these therefore came to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: Andrew cometh, and Philip, and they tell Jesus.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Jesus answereth them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a grain of wheat fall into the earth and die, it abideth by itself alone; but if it die, it beareth much fruit.
LABEL:25
VERSE:He that loveth his life loseth it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal.
LABEL:26
VERSE:If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will the Father honor.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this hour.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Father, glorify thy name. There came therefore a voice out of heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.
LABEL:29
VERSE:The multitude therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it had thundered: others said, An angel hath spoken to him.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Jesus answered and said, This voice hath not come for my sake, but for your sakes.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out.
LABEL:32
VERSE:And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto myself.
LABEL:33
VERSE:But this he said, signifying by what manner of death he should die.
LABEL:34
VERSE:The multitude therefore answered him, We have heard out of the law that the Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man?
LABEL:35
VERSE:Jesus therefore said unto them, Yet a little while is the light among you. Walk while ye have the light, that darkness overtake you not: and he that walketh in the darkness knoweth not whither he goeth.
LABEL:36
VERSE:While ye have the light, believe on the light, that ye may become sons of light.
VERSE:These things spake Jesus, and he departed and hid himself from them.
LABEL:37
VERSE:But though he had done so many signs before them, yet they believed not on him:
LABEL:38
VERSE:that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake,
VERSE:Lord, who hath believed our report?
VERSE:And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?
LABEL:39
VERSE:For this cause they could not believe, for that Isaiah said again,
LABEL:40
VERSE:He hath blinded their eyes, and he hardened their heart;
VERSE:Lest they should see with their eyes, and perceive with their heart,
VERSE:And should turn,
VERSE:And I should heal them.
LABEL:41
VERSE:These things said Isaiah, because he saw his glory; and he spake of him.
LABEL:42
VERSE:Nevertheless even of the rulers many believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess it, lest they should be put out of the synagogue:
LABEL:43
VERSE:for they loved the glory that is of men more than the glory that is of God.
LABEL:44
VERSE:And Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me.
LABEL:45
VERSE:And he that beholdeth me beholdeth him that sent me.
LABEL:46
VERSE:I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me may not abide in the darkness.
LABEL:47
VERSE:And if any man hear my sayings, and keep them not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world.
LABEL:48
VERSE:He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my sayings, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I spake, the same shall judge him in the last day.
LABEL:49
VERSE:For I spake not from myself; but the Father that sent me, he hath given me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.
LABEL:50
VERSE:And I know that his commandment is life eternal; the things therefore which I speak, even as the Father hath said unto me, so I speak.