TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JHN
CHAPTER:16
TITLE:John 16
LABEL:1
VERSE:These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be caused to stumble.
LABEL:2
VERSE:They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the hour cometh, that whosoever killeth you shall think that he offereth service unto God.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And these things will they do, because they have not known the Father, nor me.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But these things have I spoken unto you, that when their hour is come, ye may remember them, how that I told you. And these things I said not unto you from the beginning, because I was with you.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But now I go unto him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou?
LABEL:6
VERSE:But because I have spoken these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I go, I will send him unto you.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And he, when he is come, will convict the world in respect of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment:
LABEL:9
VERSE:of sin, because they believe not on me;
LABEL:10
VERSE:of righteousness, because I go to the Father, and ye behold me no more;
LABEL:11
VERSE:of judgment, because the prince of this world hath been judged.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he shall guide you into all the truth: for he shall not speak from himself; but what things soever he shall hear, these shall he speak: and he shall declare unto you the things that are to come.
LABEL:14
VERSE:He shall glorify me: for he shall take of mine, and shall declare it unto you.
LABEL:15
VERSE:All things whatsoever the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he taketh of mine, and shall declare it unto you.
LABEL:16
VERSE:A little while, and ye behold me no more; and again a little while, and ye shall see me.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Some of his disciples therefore said one to another, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye behold me not; and again a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father?
LABEL:18
VERSE:They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? We know not what he saith.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Jesus perceived that they were desirous to ask him, and he said unto them, Do ye inquire among yourselves concerning this, that I said, A little while, and ye behold me not, and again a little while, and ye shall see me?
LABEL:20
VERSE:Verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.
LABEL:21
VERSE:A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but when she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for the joy that a man is born into the world.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And ye therefore now have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no one taketh away from you.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And in that day ye shall ask me no question. Verily, verily, I say unto you, If ye shall ask anything of the Father, he will give it you in my name.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be made full.
LABEL:25
VERSE:These things have I spoken unto you in dark sayings: the hour cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in dark sayings, but shall tell you plainly of the Father.
LABEL:26
VERSE:In that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you;
LABEL:27
VERSE:for the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from the Father.
LABEL:28
VERSE:I came out from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go unto the Father.
LABEL:29
VERSE:His disciples say, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no dark saying.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Now know we that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest forth from God.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe?
LABEL:32
VERSE:Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me.
LABEL:33
VERSE:These things have I spoken unto you, that in me ye may have peace. In the world ye have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.