TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JHN
CHAPTER:17
TITLE:John 17
LABEL:1
VERSE:These things spake Jesus; and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that the Son may glorify thee:
LABEL:2
VERSE:even as thou gavest him authority over all flesh, that to all whom thou hast given him, he should give eternal life.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And this is life eternal, that they should know thee the only true God, and him whom thou didst send, even Jesus Christ.
LABEL:4
VERSE:I glorified thee on the earth, having accomplished the work which thou hast given me to do.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And now, Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was.
LABEL:6
VERSE:I manifested thy name unto the men whom thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them to me; and they have kept thy word.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Now they know that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are from thee:
LABEL:8
VERSE:for the words which thou gavest me I have given unto them; and they received them, and knew of a truth that I came forth from thee, and they believed that thou didst send me.
LABEL:9
VERSE:I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for those whom thou hast given me; for they are thine:
LABEL:10
VERSE:and all things that are mine are thine, and thine are mine: and I am glorified in them.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And I am no more in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name which thou hast given me, that they may be one, even as we are.
LABEL:12
VERSE:While I was with them, I kept them in thy name which thou hast given me: and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled.
LABEL:13
VERSE:But now I come to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I have given them thy word; and the world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
LABEL:15
VERSE:I pray not that thou shouldest take them from the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil one.
LABEL:16
VERSE:They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Sanctify them in the truth: thy word is truth.
LABEL:18
VERSE:As thou didst send me into the world, even so sent I them into the world.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Neither for these only do I pray, but for them also that believe on me through their word;
LABEL:21
VERSE:that they may all be one; even as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be in us: that the world may believe that thou didst send me.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And the glory which thou hast given me I have given unto them; that they may be one, even as we are one;
LABEL:23
VERSE:I in them, and thou in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that thou didst send me, and lovedst them, even as thou lovedst me.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Father, I desire that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world.
LABEL:25
VERSE:O righteous Father, the world knew thee not, but I knew thee; and these knew that thou didst send me;
LABEL:26
VERSE:and I made known unto them thy name, and will make it known; that the love wherewith thou lovedst me may be in them, and I in them.