TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JHN
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:John 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
LABEL:2
VERSE:(although Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples),
LABEL:3
VERSE:he left Judæa, and departed again into Galilee.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And he must needs pass through Samaria.
LABEL:5
VERSE:So he cometh to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph:
LABEL:6
VERSE:and Jacob’s well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour.
LABEL:7
VERSE:There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For his disciples were gone away into the city to buy food.
LABEL:9
VERSE:The Samaritan woman therefore saith unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, who am a Samaritan woman? (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)
LABEL:10
VERSE:Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
LABEL:11
VERSE:The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: whence then hast thou that living water?
LABEL:12
VERSE:Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his sons, and his cattle?
LABEL:13
VERSE:Jesus answered and said unto her, Every one that drinketh of this water shall thirst again:
LABEL:14
VERSE:but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall become in him a well of water springing up unto eternal life.
LABEL:15
VERSE:The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come all the way hither to draw.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither.
LABEL:17
VERSE:The woman answered and said unto him, I have no husband. Jesus saith unto her, Thou saidst well, I have no husband:
LABEL:18
VERSE:for thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: this hast thou said truly.
LABEL:19
VERSE:The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, shall ye worship the Father.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Ye worship that which ye know not: we worship that which we know; for salvation is from the Jews.
LABEL:23
VERSE:But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth: for such doth the Father seek to be his worshippers.
LABEL:24
VERSE:God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship in spirit and truth.
LABEL:25
VERSE:The woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh (he that is called Christ): when he is come, he will declare unto us all things.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And upon this came his disciples; and they marvelled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why speakest thou with her?
LABEL:28
VERSE:So the woman left her waterpot, and went away into the city, and saith to the people,
LABEL:29
VERSE:Come, see a man, who told me all things that ever I did: can this be the Christ?
LABEL:30
VERSE:They went out of the city, and were coming to him.
LABEL:31
VERSE:In the mean while the disciples prayed him, saying, Rabbi, eat.
LABEL:32
VERSE:But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not.
LABEL:33
VERSE:The disciples therefore said one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat?
LABEL:34
VERSE:Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to accomplish his work.
LABEL:35
VERSE:Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh the harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields, that they are white already unto harvest.
LABEL:36
VERSE:He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal; that he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.
LABEL:37
VERSE:For herein is the saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth.
LABEL:38
VERSE:I sent you to reap that whereon ye have not labored: others have labored, and ye are entered into their labor.
LABEL:39
VERSE:And from that city many of the Samaritans believed on him because of the word of the woman, who testified, He told me all things that ever I did.
LABEL:40
VERSE:So when the Samaritans came unto him, they besought him to abide with them: and he abode there two days.
LABEL:41
VERSE:And many more believed because of his word;
LABEL:42
VERSE:and they said to the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy speaking: for we have heard for ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world.
LABEL:43
VERSE:And after the two days he went forth from thence into Galilee.
LABEL:44
VERSE:For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honor in his own country.
LABEL:45
VERSE:So when he came into Galilee, the Galilæans received him, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast.
LABEL:46
VERSE:He came therefore again unto Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum.
LABEL:47
VERSE:When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judæa into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son; for he was at the point of death.
LABEL:48
VERSE:Jesus therefore said unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will in no wise believe.
LABEL:49
VERSE:The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.
LABEL:50
VERSE:Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. The man believed the word that Jesus spake unto him, and he went his way.
LABEL:51
VERSE:And as he was now going down, his servants met him, saying, that his son lived.
LABEL:52
VERSE:So he inquired of them the hour when he began to amend. They said therefore unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
LABEL:53
VERSE:So the father knew that it was at that hour in which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house.
LABEL:54
VERSE:This is again the second sign that Jesus did, having come out of Judæa into Galilee.