TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JHN
CHAPTER:8
TITLE:John 8
LABEL:1
VERSE:but Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And the scribes and the Pharisees bring a woman taken in adultery; and having set her in the midst,
LABEL:4
VERSE:they say unto him, Teacher, this woman hath been taken in adultery, in the very act.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Now in the law Moses commanded us to stone such: what then sayest thou of her?
LABEL:6
VERSE:And this they said, trying him, that they might have whereof to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground.
LABEL:7
VERSE:But when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And again he stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And they, when they heard it, went out one by one, beginning from the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman, where she was, in the midst.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And Jesus lifted up himself, and said unto her, Woman, where are they? did no man condemn thee?
LABEL:11
VERSE:And she said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn thee: go thy way; from henceforth sin no more.]
LABEL:12
VERSE:Again therefore Jesus spake unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in the darkness, but shall have the light of life.
LABEL:13
VERSE:The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest witness of thyself; thy witness is not true.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Jesus answered and said unto them, Even if I bear witness of myself, my witness is true; for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye know not whence I come, or whither I go.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Yea and if I judge, my judgment is true; for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Yea and in your law it is written, that the witness of two men is true.
LABEL:18
VERSE:I am he that beareth witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me.
LABEL:19
VERSE:They said therefore unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye know neither me, nor my Father: if ye knew me, ye would know my Father also.
LABEL:20
VERSE:These words spake he in the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no man took him; because his hour was not yet come.
LABEL:21
VERSE:He said therefore again unto them, I go away, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sin: whither I go, ye cannot come.
LABEL:22
VERSE:The Jews therefore said, Will he kill himself, that he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come?
LABEL:23
VERSE:And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world.
LABEL:24
VERSE:I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for except ye believe that I am he, ye shall die in your sins.
LABEL:25
VERSE:They said therefore unto him, Who art thou? Jesus said unto them, Even that which I have also spoken unto you from the beginning.
LABEL:26
VERSE:I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you: howbeit he that sent me is true; and the things which I heard from him, these speak I unto the world.
LABEL:27
VERSE:They perceived not that he spake to them of the Father.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Jesus therefore said, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself, but as the Father taught me, I speak these things.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And he that sent me is with me; he hath not left me alone; for I do always the things that are pleasing to him.
LABEL:30
VERSE:As he spake these things, many believed on him.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Jesus therefore said to those Jews that had believed him, If ye abide in my word, then are ye truly my disciples;
LABEL:32
VERSE:and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
LABEL:33
VERSE:They answered unto him, We are Abraham’s seed, and have never yet been in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free?
LABEL:34
VERSE:Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Every one that committeth sin is the bondservant of sin.
LABEL:35
VERSE:And the bondservant abideth not in the house for ever: the son abideth for ever.
LABEL:36
VERSE:If therefore the Son shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.
LABEL:37
VERSE:I know that ye are Abraham’s seed; yet ye seek to kill me, because my word hath not free course in you.
LABEL:38
VERSE:I speak the things which I have seen with my Father: and ye also do the things which ye heard from your father.
LABEL:39
VERSE:They answered and said unto him, Our father is Abraham. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham’s children, ye would do the works of Abraham.
LABEL:40
VERSE:But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I heard from God: this did not Abraham.
LABEL:41
VERSE:Ye do the works of your father. They said unto him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, even God.
LABEL:42
VERSE:Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I came forth and am come from God; for neither have I come of myself, but he sent me.
LABEL:43
VERSE:Why do ye not understand my speech? Even because ye cannot hear my word.
LABEL:44
VERSE:Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father it is your will to do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and standeth not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father thereof.
LABEL:45
VERSE:But because I say the truth, ye believe me not.
LABEL:46
VERSE:Which of you convicteth me of sin? If I say truth, why do ye not believe me?
LABEL:47
VERSE:He that is of God heareth the words of God: for this cause ye hear them not, because ye are not of God.
LABEL:48
VERSE:The Jews answered and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a demon?
LABEL:49
VERSE:Jesus answered, I have not a demon; but I honor my Father, and ye dishonor me.
LABEL:50
VERSE:But I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth.
LABEL:51
VERSE:Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my word, he shall never see death.
LABEL:52
VERSE:The Jews said unto him, Now we know that thou hast a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my word, he shall never taste of death.
LABEL:53
VERSE:Art thou greater than our father Abraham, who died? and the prophets died: whom makest thou thyself?
LABEL:54
VERSE:Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing: it is my Father that glorifieth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God;
LABEL:55
VERSE:and ye have not known him: but I know him; and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be like unto you, a liar: but I know him, and keep his word.
LABEL:56
VERSE:Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day; and he saw it, and was glad.
LABEL:57
VERSE:The Jews therefore said unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham?
LABEL:58
VERSE:Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was born, I am.
LABEL:59
VERSE:They took up stones therefore to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple.