TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:2SA
CHAPTER:8
TITLE:2 Samuel 8
SECTION:Enemies and Friends
LABEL:1
VERSE:And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them: and David took Metheg-ammah out of the hand of the Philistines.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And he smote Moab, and measured them with a line, casting them down to the ground; even with two lines measured he to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive. And so the Moabites became David's servants, and brought gifts.
LABEL:3
VERSE:David smote also Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his border at the river Euphrates.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David houghed all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for an hundred chariots.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus: and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought gifts. And the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And from Betah, and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass.
LABEL:9
VERSE:When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer,
LABEL:10
VERSE:then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer, and smitten him: for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And Joram brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass:
LABEL:11
VERSE:which also king David did dedicate unto the LORD, with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all nations which he subdued;
LABEL:12
VERSE:of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And David gat him a name when he returned from smiting of the Syrians in the valley of salt, being eighteen thousand men.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all they of Edom became David's servants. And the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed judgment and justice unto all his people.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
LABEL:17
VERSE:and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were the priests; and Seraiah was the scribe;
LABEL:18
VERSE:and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over both the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were chief rulers.