TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:NUM
CHAPTER:17
TITLE:Numbers 17
SECTION:Aaron's Rod
LABEL:1
VERSE:And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of every one of them a rod according to the house of their fathers, of all their princes according to the house of their fathers twelve rods: write thou every man's name upon his rod.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And thou shalt write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi: for one rod shall be for the head of the house of their fathers.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And thou shalt lay them up in the tabernacle of the congregation before the testimony, where I will meet with you.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And it shall come to pass, that the man's rod, whom I shall choose, shall blossom: and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, whereby they murmur against you.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, and every one of their princes gave him a rod apiece, for each prince one, according to their fathers' houses, even twelve rods: and the rod of Aaron was among their rods.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And Moses laid up the rods before the LORD in the tabernacle of witness.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And it came to pass, that on the morrow Moses went into the tabernacle of witness; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And Moses brought out all the rods from before the LORD unto all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And the LORD said unto Moses, Bring Aaron's rod again before the testimony, to be kept for a token against the rebels; and thou shalt quite take away their murmurings from me, that they die not.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And Moses did so: as the LORD commanded him, so did he.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, we die, we perish, we all perish.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Whosoever cometh any thing near unto the tabernacle of the LORD shall die: shall we be consumed with dying?