TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:NUM
CHAPTER:28
TITLE:Numbers 28
SECTION:A Calendar of Offerings
LABEL:1
VERSE:And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
LABEL:4
VERSE:The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even;
LABEL:5
VERSE:and a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil.
LABEL:6
VERSE:It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the LORD  for a drink offering.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof:
LABEL:10
VERSE:this is the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot;
LABEL:12
VERSE:and three tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;
LABEL:13
VERSE:and a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meat offering unto one lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto a bullock, and the third part of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth part of an hin unto a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the LORD.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
LABEL:18
VERSE:In the first day shall be an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work therein:
LABEL:19
VERSE:but ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish:
LABEL:20
VERSE:and their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram;
LABEL:21
VERSE:a several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
LABEL:22
VERSE:and one goat for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
LABEL:24
VERSE:After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And on the seventh day ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the LORD, after your weeks be out, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:
LABEL:27
VERSE:but ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;
LABEL:28
VERSE:and their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, two tenth deals unto one ram,
LABEL:29
VERSE:a several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;
LABEL:30
VERSE:and one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Ye shall offer them beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink offerings.