TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:EPH
CHAPTER:5
TITLE:Ephesians 5
LABEL:1
VERSE:Be therefore imitators of God, as beloved children.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling fragrance.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But sexual immorality, and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be mentioned among you, as becomes saints;
LABEL:4
VERSE:nor filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not appropriate, but rather giving of thanks.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Know this for sure, that no sexually immoral person, nor unclean person, nor covetous man (who is an idolater), has any inheritance in the Kingdom of Christ and God.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Therefore don’t be partakers with them.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For you were once darkness, but are now light in the Lord. Walk as children of light,
LABEL:9
VERSE:for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth,
LABEL:10
VERSE:proving what is well pleasing to the Lord.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Have no fellowship with the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For it is a shame even to speak of the things which are done by them in secret.
LABEL:13
VERSE:But all things, when they are reproved, are revealed by the light, for everything that reveals is light.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Therefore he says, “Awake, you who sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.”
LABEL:15
VERSE:Therefore watch carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise,
LABEL:16
VERSE:redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Therefore, don’t be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Don’t be drunken with wine, in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit,
LABEL:19
VERSE:speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs; singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
LABEL:20
VERSE:giving thanks always concerning all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father;
LABEL:21
VERSE:subjecting yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as to the Lord.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the assembly, being himself the savior of the body.
LABEL:24
VERSE:But as the assembly is subject to Christ, so let the wives also be to their own husbands in everything.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the assembly and gave himself up for her,
LABEL:26
VERSE:that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word,
LABEL:27
VERSE:that he might present the assembly to himself gloriously, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without defect.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Even so husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For no man ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the Lord also does the assembly,
LABEL:30
VERSE:because we are members of his body, of his flesh and bones.
LABEL:31
VERSE:“For this cause a man will leave his father and mother and will be joined to his wife. Then the two will become one flesh.”
LABEL:32
VERSE:This mystery is great, but I speak concerning Christ and the assembly.
LABEL:33
VERSE:Nevertheless each of you must also love his own wife even as himself; and let the wife see that she respects her husband.