TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:LAM
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Lamentations 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:How doth the city sit solitary, that was full of people!
VERSE:She is become as a widow, that was great among the nations!
VERSE:She that was a princess among the provinces is become tributary!
LABEL:2
VERSE:She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks;
VERSE:Among all her lovers she hath none to comfort her:
VERSE:All her friends have dealt treacherously with her; they are become her enemies.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Judah is gone into captivity because of affliction, and because of great servitude;
VERSE:She dwelleth among the nations, she findeth no rest:
VERSE:All her persecutors overtook her within the straits.
LABEL:4
VERSE:The ways of Zion do mourn, because none come to the solemn assembly;
VERSE:All her gates are desolate, her priests do sigh:
VERSE:Her virgins are afflicted, and she herself is in bitterness.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Her adversaries are become the head, her enemies prosper;
VERSE:For Jehovah hath afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions:
VERSE:Her young children are gone into captivity before the adversary.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And from the daughter of Zion all her majesty is departed:
VERSE:Her princes are become like harts that find no pasture,
VERSE:And they are gone without strength before the pursuer.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Jerusalem remembereth in the days of her affliction and of her miseries all her pleasant things that were from the days of old:
VERSE:When her people fell into the hand of the adversary, and none did help her,
VERSE:The adversaries saw her, they did mock at her desolations.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Jerusalem hath grievously sinned; therefore she is become as an unclean thing;
VERSE:All that honored her despise her, because they have seen her nakedness:
VERSE:Yea, she sigheth, and turneth backward.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Her filthiness was in her skirts; she remembered not her latter end;
VERSE:Therefore is she come down wonderfully; she hath no comforter:
VERSE:Behold, O Jehovah, my affliction; for the enemy hath magnified himself.
LABEL:10
VERSE:The adversary hath spread out his hand upon all her pleasant things:
VERSE:For she hath seen that the nations are entered into her sanctuary,
VERSE:Concerning whom thou didst command that they should not enter into thine assembly.
LABEL:11
VERSE:All her people sigh, they seek bread;
VERSE:They have given their pleasant things for food to refresh the soul:
VERSE:See, O Jehovah, and behold; for I am become abject.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by?
VERSE:Behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow, which is brought upon me,
VERSE:Wherewith Jehovah hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger.
LABEL:13
VERSE:From on high hath he sent fire into my bones, and it prevaileth against them;
VERSE:He hath spread a net for my feet, he hath turned me back:
VERSE:He hath made me desolate and faint all the day.
LABEL:14
VERSE:The yoke of my transgressions is bound by his hand;
VERSE:They are knit together, they are come up upon my neck; he hath made my strength to fail:
VERSE:The Lord hath delivered me into their hands, against whom I am not able to stand.
LABEL:15
VERSE:The Lord hath set at nought all my mighty men in the midst of me;
VERSE:He hath called a solemn assembly against me to crush my young men:
VERSE:The Lord hath trodden as in a winepress the virgin daughter of Judah.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For these things I weep; mine eye, mine eye runneth down with water;
VERSE:Because the comforter that should refresh my soul is far from me:
VERSE:My children are desolate, because the enemy hath prevailed.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Zion spreadeth forth her hands; there is none to comfort her;
VERSE:Jehovah hath commanded concerning Jacob, that they that are round about him should be his adversaries:
VERSE:Jerusalem is among them as an unclean thing.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Jehovah is righteous; for I have rebelled against his commandment:
VERSE:Hear, I pray you, all ye peoples, and behold my sorrow:
VERSE:My virgins and my young men are gone into captivity.
LABEL:19
VERSE:I called for my lovers, but they deceived me:
VERSE:My priests and mine elders gave up the ghost in the city,
VERSE:While they sought them food to refresh their souls.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Behold, O Jehovah; for I am in distress; my heart is troubled;
VERSE:My heart is turned within me; for I have grievously rebelled:
VERSE:Abroad the sword bereaveth, at home there is as death.
LABEL:21
VERSE:They have heard that I sigh; there is none to comfort me;
VERSE:All mine enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad that thou hast done it:
VERSE:Thou wilt bring the day that thou hast proclaimed, and they shall be like unto me.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Let all their wickedness come before thee;
VERSE:And do unto them, as thou hast done unto me for all my transgressions:
VERSE:For my sighs are many, and my heart is faint.