TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:LAM
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Lamentations 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:How hath the Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger!
VERSE:He hath cast down from heaven unto the earth the beauty of Israel,
VERSE:And hath not remembered his footstool in the day of his anger.
LABEL:2
VERSE:The Lord hath swallowed up all the habitations of Jacob, and hath not pitied:
VERSE:He hath thrown down in his wrath the strongholds of the daughter of Judah;
VERSE:He hath brought them down to the ground; he hath profaned the kingdom and the princes thereof.
LABEL:3
VERSE:He hath cut off in fierce anger all the horn of Israel;
VERSE:He hath drawn back his right hand from before the enemy:
VERSE:And he hath burned up Jacob like a flaming fire, which devoureth round about.
LABEL:4
VERSE:He hath bent his bow like an enemy, he hath stood with his right hand as an adversary,
VERSE:And hath slain all that were pleasant to the eye:
VERSE:In the tent of the daughter of Zion he hath poured out his wrath like fire.
LABEL:5
VERSE:The Lord is become as an enemy, he hath swallowed up Israel;
VERSE:He hath swallowed up all her palaces, he hath destroyed his strongholds;
VERSE:And he hath multiplied in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And he hath violently taken away his tabernacle, as if it were of a garden; he hath destroyed his place of assembly:
VERSE:Jehovah hath caused solemn assembly and sabbath to be forgotten in Zion,
VERSE:And hath despised in the indignation of his anger the king and the priest.
LABEL:7
VERSE:The Lord hath cast off his altar, he hath abhorred his sanctuary;
VERSE:He hath given up into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces:
VERSE:They have made a noise in the house of Jehovah, as in the day of a solemn assembly.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Jehovah hath purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter of Zion;
VERSE:He hath stretched out the line, he hath not withdrawn his hand from destroying;
VERSE:And he hath made the rampart and wall to lament; they languish together.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Her gates are sunk into the ground; he hath destroyed and broken her bars:
VERSE:Her king and her princes are among the nations where the law is not;
VERSE:Yea, her prophets find no vision from Jehovah.
LABEL:10
VERSE:The elders of the daughter of Zion sit upon the ground, they keep silence;
VERSE:They have cast up dust upon their heads; they have girded themselves with sackcloth:
VERSE:The virgins of Jerusalem hang down their heads to the ground.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Mine eyes do fail with tears, my heart is troubled;
VERSE:My liver is poured upon the earth, because of the destruction of the daughter of my people,
VERSE:Because the young children and the sucklings swoon in the streets of the city.
LABEL:12
VERSE:They say to their mothers, Where is grain and wine?
VERSE:When they swoon as the wounded in the streets of the city,
VERSE:When their soul is poured out into their mothers’ bosom.
LABEL:13
VERSE:What shall I testify unto thee? what shall I liken to thee, O daughter of Jerusalem?
VERSE:What shall I compare to thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Zion?
VERSE:For thy breach is great like the sea: who can heal thee?
LABEL:14
VERSE:Thy prophets have seen for thee false and foolish visions;
VERSE:And they have not uncovered thine iniquity, to bring back thy captivity,
VERSE:But have seen for thee false oracles and causes of banishment.
LABEL:15
VERSE:All that pass by clap their hands at thee;
VERSE:They hiss and wag their head at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying,
VERSE:Is this the city that men called The perfection of beauty, The joy of the whole earth?
LABEL:16
VERSE:All thine enemies have opened their mouth wide against thee;
VERSE:They hiss and gnash the teeth; they say, We have swallowed her up;
VERSE:Certainly this is the day that we looked for; we have found, we have seen it.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Jehovah hath done that which he purposed; he hath fulfilled his word that he commanded in the days of old;
VERSE:He hath thrown down, and hath not pitied:
VERSE:And he hath caused the enemy to rejoice over thee; he hath exalted the horn of thine adversaries.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Their heart cried unto the Lord:
VERSE:O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night;
VERSE:Give thyself no respite; let not the apple of thine eye cease.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the watches;
VERSE:Pour out thy heart like water before the face of the Lord:
VERSE:Lift up thy hands toward him for the life of thy young children, that faint for hunger at the head of every street.
LABEL:20
VERSE:See, O Jehovah, and behold to whom thou hast done thus!
VERSE:Shall the women eat their fruit, the children that are dandled in the hands?
VERSE:Shall the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord?
LABEL:21
VERSE:The youth and the old man lie on the ground in the streets;
VERSE:My virgins and my young men are fallen by the sword:
VERSE:Thou hast slain them in the day of thine anger; thou hast slaughtered, and not pitied.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Thou hast called, as in the day of a solemn assembly, my terrors on every side;
VERSE:And there was none that escaped or remained in the day of Jehovah’s anger:
VERSE:Those that I have dandled and brought up hath mine enemy consumed.