TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:LAM
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:Lamentations 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:How is the gold become dim! how is the most pure gold changed!
VERSE:The stones of the sanctuary are poured out at the head of every street.
LABEL:2
VERSE:The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold,
VERSE:How are they esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter!
LABEL:3
VERSE:Even the jackals draw out the breast, they give suck to their young ones:
VERSE:The daughter of my people is become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness.
LABEL:4
VERSE:The tongue of the sucking child cleaveth to the roof of his mouth for thirst:
VERSE:The young children ask bread, and no man breaketh it unto them.
LABEL:5
VERSE:They that did feed delicately are desolate in the streets:
VERSE:They that were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the sin of Sodom,
VERSE:That was overthrown as in a moment, and no hands were laid upon her.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Her nobles were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk;
VERSE:They were more ruddy in body than rubies, their polishing was as of sapphire.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Their visage is blacker than a coal; they are not known in the streets:
VERSE:Their skin cleaveth to their bones; it is withered, it is become like a stick.
LABEL:9
VERSE:They that are slain with the sword are better than they that are slain with hunger;
VERSE:For these pine away, stricken through, for want of the fruits of the field.
LABEL:10
VERSE:The hands of the pitiful women have boiled their own children;
VERSE:They were their food in the destruction of the daughter of my people.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Jehovah hath accomplished his wrath, he hath poured out his fierce anger;
VERSE:And he hath kindled a fire in Zion, which hath devoured the foundations thereof.
LABEL:12
VERSE:The kings of the earth believed not, neither all the inhabitants of the world,
VERSE:That the adversary and the enemy would enter into the gates of Jerusalem.
LABEL:13
VERSE:  It is because of the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests,
VERSE:That have shed the blood of the just in the midst of her.
LABEL:14
VERSE:They wander as blind men in the streets, they are polluted with blood,
VERSE:So that men cannot touch their garments.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Depart ye, they cried unto them, Unclean! depart, depart, touch not!
VERSE:When they fled away and wandered, men said among the nations, They shall no more sojourn here.
LABEL:16
VERSE:The anger of Jehovah hath scattered them; he will no more regard them:
VERSE:They respected not the persons of the priests, they favored not the elders.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Our eyes do yet fail in looking for our vain help:
VERSE:In our watching we have watched for a nation that could not save.
LABEL:18
VERSE:They hunt our steps, so that we cannot go in our streets:
VERSE:Our end is near, our days are fulfilled; for our end is come.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the heavens:
VERSE:They chased us upon the mountains, they laid wait for us in the wilderness.
LABEL:20
VERSE:The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of Jehovah, was taken in their pits;
VERSE:Of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the nations.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the land of Uz:
VERSE:The cup shall pass through unto thee also; thou shalt be drunken, and shalt make thyself naked.
LABEL:22
VERSE:The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion; he will no more carry thee away into captivity:
VERSE:He will visit thine iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he will uncover thy sins.