TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1TI
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:1 Timothy 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God our Saviour, and Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope;
LABEL:2
VERSE:unto Timothy, my own son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord.
SECTION:The Christian Ministry
LABEL:3
VERSE:As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine,
LABEL:4
VERSE:neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in faith: so do.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned:
LABEL:6
VERSE:from which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling;
LABEL:7
VERSE:desiring to be teachers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm.
LABEL:8
VERSE:But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully;
LABEL:9
VERSE:knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
LABEL:10
VERSE:for whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine;
LABEL:11
VERSE:according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry;
LABEL:13
VERSE:who was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious: but I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:15
VERSE:This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might shew forth all longsuffering, for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
LABEL:18
VERSE:This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare;
LABEL:19
VERSE:holding faith, and a good conscience; which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck:
LABEL:20
VERSE:of whom is Hymenæus and Alexander; whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme.