TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1TI
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:1 Timothy 4
SECTION:The Good Minister
LABEL:1
VERSE:Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils;
LABEL:2
VERSE:speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their conscience seared with a hot iron;
LABEL:3
VERSE:forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving:
LABEL:5
VERSE:for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer.
LABEL:6
VERSE:If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained.
LABEL:7
VERSE:But refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself rather unto godliness.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For bodily exercise profiteth little: but godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come.
LABEL:9
VERSE:This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For therefore we both labour and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, specially of those that believe.
LABEL:11
VERSE:These things command and teach.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine; continue in them: for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself, and them that hear thee.