TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:11
TITLE:Romans 11
LABEL:1
VERSE:I say then, Did God cast off his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
LABEL:2
VERSE:God did not cast off his people which he foreknew. Or know ye not what the scripture saith of Elijah? how he pleadeth with God against Israel:
LABEL:3
VERSE:Lord, they have killed thy prophets, they have digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have left for myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to Baal.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But if it is by grace, it is no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace.
LABEL:7
VERSE:What then? That which Israel seeketh for, that he obtained not; but the election obtained it, and the rest were hardened:
LABEL:8
VERSE:according as it is written, God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear, unto this very day.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And David saith,
VERSE:Let their table be made a snare, and a trap,
VERSE:And a stumblingblock, and a recompense unto them:
LABEL:10
VERSE:Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see,
VERSE:And bow thou down their back always.
LABEL:11
VERSE:I say then, Did they stumble that they might fall? God forbid: but by their fall salvation is come unto the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Now if their fall is the riches of the world, and their loss the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fulness?
LABEL:13
VERSE:But I speak to you that are Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle of Gentiles, I glorify my ministry;
LABEL:14
VERSE:if by any means I may provoke to jealousy them that are my flesh, and may save some of them.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For if the casting away of them is the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead?
LABEL:16
VERSE:And if the firstfruit is holy, so is the lump: and if the root is holy, so are the branches.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But if some of the branches were broken off, and thou, being a wild olive, wast grafted in among them, and didst become partaker with them of the root of the fatness of the olive tree;
LABEL:18
VERSE:glory not over the branches: but if thou gloriest, it is not thou that bearest the root, but the root thee.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Thou wilt say then, Branches were broken off, that I might be grafted in.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Well; by their unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by thy faith. Be not highminded, but fear:
LABEL:21
VERSE:for if God spared not the natural branches, neither will he spare thee.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Behold then the goodness and severity of God: toward them that fell, severity; but toward thee, God’s goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And they also, if they continue not in their unbelief, shall be grafted in: for God is able to graft them in again.
LABEL:24
VERSE:For if thou wast cut out of that which is by nature a wild olive tree, and wast grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree; how much more shall these, which are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree?
LABEL:25
VERSE:For I would not, brethren, have you ignorant of this mystery, lest ye be wise in your own conceits, that a hardening in part hath befallen Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in;
LABEL:26
VERSE:and so all Israel shall be saved: even as it is written,
VERSE:There shall come out of Zion the Deliverer;
VERSE:He shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob:
LABEL:27
VERSE:And this is my covenant unto them,
VERSE:When I shall take away their sins.
LABEL:28
VERSE:As touching the gospel, they are enemies for your sake: but as touching the election, they are beloved for the fathers’ sake.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For the gifts and the calling of God are not repented of.
LABEL:30
VERSE:For as ye in time past were disobedient to God, but now have obtained mercy by their disobedience,
LABEL:31
VERSE:even so have these also now been disobedient, that by the mercy shown to you they also may now obtain mercy.
LABEL:32
VERSE:For God hath shut up all unto disobedience, that he might have mercy upon all.
LABEL:33
VERSE:O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past tracing out!
LABEL:34
VERSE:For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor?
LABEL:35
VERSE:or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again?
LABEL:36
VERSE:For of him, and through him, and unto him, are all things. To him be the glory for ever. Amen.