TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:Romans 12
LABEL:1
VERSE:I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And be not fashioned according to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For I say, through the grace that was given me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but so to think as to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to each man a measure of faith.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For even as we have many members in one body, and all the members have not the same office:
LABEL:5
VERSE:so we, who are many, are one body in Christ, and severally members one of another.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And having gifts differing according to the grace that was given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of our faith;
LABEL:7
VERSE:or ministry, let us give ourselves to our ministry; or he that teacheth, to his teaching;
LABEL:8
VERSE:or he that exhorteth, to his exhorting: he that giveth, let him do it with liberality; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that showeth mercy, with cheerfulness.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good.
LABEL:10
VERSE:In love of the brethren be tenderly affectioned one to another; in honor preferring one another;
LABEL:11
VERSE:in diligence not slothful; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord;
LABEL:12
VERSE:rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing stedfastly in prayer;
LABEL:13
VERSE:communicating to the necessities of the saints; given to hospitality.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Bless them that persecute you; bless, and curse not.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Rejoice with them that rejoice; weep with them that weep.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Be of the same mind one toward another. Set not your mind on high things, but condescend to things that are lowly. Be not wise in your own conceits.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Render to no man evil for evil. Take thought for things honorable in the sight of all men.
LABEL:18
VERSE:If it be possible, as much as in you lieth, be at peace with all men.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Avenge not yourselves, beloved, but give place unto the wrath of God: for it is written, Vengeance belongeth unto me; I will recompense, saith the Lord.
LABEL:20
VERSE:But if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him to drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.