TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Romans 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:Wherefore thou art without excuse, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest dost practise the same things.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against them that practise such things.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And reckonest thou this, O man, who judgest them that practise such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?
LABEL:4
VERSE:Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance?
LABEL:5
VERSE:but after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up for thyself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God;
LABEL:6
VERSE:who will render to every man according to his works:
LABEL:7
VERSE:to them that by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and incorruption, eternal life:
LABEL:8
VERSE:but unto them that are factious, and obey not the truth, but obey unrighteousness, shall be wrath and indignation,
LABEL:9
VERSE:tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that worketh evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek;
LABEL:10
VERSE:but glory and honor and peace to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek:
LABEL:11
VERSE:for there is no respect of persons with God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For as many as have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law: and as many as have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law;
LABEL:13
VERSE:for not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified;
LABEL:14
VERSE:(for when Gentiles that have not the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are the law unto themselves;
LABEL:15
VERSE:in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness therewith, and their thoughts one with another accusing or else excusing them);
LABEL:16
VERSE:in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, according to my gospel, by Jesus Christ.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But if thou bearest the name of a Jew, and restest upon the law, and gloriest in God,
LABEL:18
VERSE:and knowest his will, and approvest the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law,
LABEL:19
VERSE:and art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them that are in darkness,
LABEL:20
VERSE:a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of babes, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth;
LABEL:21
VERSE:thou therefore that teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal?
LABEL:22
VERSE:thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou rob temples?
LABEL:23
VERSE:thou who gloriest in the law, through thy transgression of the law dishonorest thou God?
LABEL:24
VERSE:For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, even as it is written.
LABEL:25
VERSE:For circumcision indeed profiteth, if thou be a doer of the law: but if thou be a transgressor of the law, thy circumcision is become uncircumcision.
LABEL:26
VERSE:If therefore the uncircumcision keep the ordinances of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be reckoned for circumcision?
LABEL:27
VERSE:and shall not the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who with the letter and circumcision art a transgressor of the law?
LABEL:28
VERSE:For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh:
LABEL:29
VERSE:but he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise is not of men, but of God.