TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Romans 6
LABEL:1
VERSE:What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?
LABEL:2
VERSE:God forbid. We who died to sin, how shall we any longer live therein?
LABEL:3
VERSE:Or are ye ignorant that all we who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?
LABEL:4
VERSE:We were buried therefore with him through baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also might walk in newness of life.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection;
LABEL:6
VERSE:knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away, that so we should no longer be in bondage to sin;
LABEL:7
VERSE:for he that hath died is justified from sin.
LABEL:8
VERSE:But if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him;
LABEL:9
VERSE:knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death no more hath dominion over him.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For the death that he died, he died unto sin once: but the life that he liveth, he liveth unto God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Even so reckon ye also yourselves to be dead unto sin, but alive unto God in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey the lusts thereof:
LABEL:13
VERSE:neither present your members unto sin as instruments of unrighteousness; but present yourselves unto God, as alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under law, but under grace.
LABEL:15
VERSE:What then? shall we sin, because we are not under law, but under grace? God forbid.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Know ye not, that to whom ye present yourselves as servants unto obedience, his servants ye are whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?
LABEL:17
VERSE:But thanks be to God, that, whereas ye were servants of sin, ye became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching whereunto ye were delivered;
LABEL:18
VERSE:and being made free from sin, ye became servants of righteousness.
LABEL:19
VERSE:I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye presented your members as servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity, even so now present your members as servants to righteousness unto sanctification.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For when ye were servants of sin, ye were free in regard of righteousness.
LABEL:21
VERSE:What fruit then had ye at that time in the things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But now being made free from sin and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end eternal life.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For the wages of sin is death; but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.