TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:EXO
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Exodus 2
SECTION:Moses
LABEL:1
VERSE:And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took to wife a daughter of Levi.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein; and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river; and her maidens walked along by the river's side; and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And when she had opened it, she saw the child: and, behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the Hebrews' children.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee?
LABEL:8
VERSE:And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went and called the child's mother.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child, and nursed it.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said, Because I drew him out of the water.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he spied an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow?
LABEL:14
VERSE:And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thing is known.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian: and he sat down by a well.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came and drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood up and helped them, and watered their flock.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, How is it that ye are come so soon to day?
LABEL:19
VERSE:And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for us, and watered the flock.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And he said unto his daughters, And where is he? why is it that ye have left the man? call him, that he may eat bread.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And she bare him a son, and he called his name Gershom: for he said, I have been a stranger in a strange land.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them.