TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:2PE
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:2 Peter 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ:
LABEL:2
VERSE:grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord,
LABEL:3
VERSE:according as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue:
LABEL:4
VERSE:whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge;
LABEL:6
VERSE:and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness;
LABEL:7
VERSE:and to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure: for if ye do these things, ye shall never fall:
LABEL:11
VERSE:for so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance;
LABEL:14
VERSE:knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed me.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
LABEL:17
VERSE:For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount.
LABEL:19
VERSE:We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:
LABEL:20
VERSE:knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation.
LABEL:21
VERSE:For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.