TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ECC
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Ecclesiastes 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher; vanity of vanities, all is vanity.
LABEL:3
VERSE:What profit hath man of all his labor wherein he laboreth under the sun?
LABEL:4
VERSE:One generation goeth, and another generation cometh; but the earth abideth for ever.
LABEL:5
VERSE:The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to its place where it ariseth.
LABEL:6
VERSE:The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north; it turneth about continually in its course, and the wind returneth again to its circuits.
LABEL:7
VERSE:All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full; unto the place whither the rivers go, thither they go again.
LABEL:8
VERSE:All things are full of weariness; man cannot utter it: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.
LABEL:9
VERSE:That which hath been is that which shall be; and that which hath been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Is there a thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? it hath been long ago, in the ages which were before us.
LABEL:11
VERSE:There is no remembrance of the former generations; neither shall there be any remembrance of the latter generations that are to come, among those that shall come after.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under heaven: it is a sore travail that God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and, behold, all is vanity and a striving after wind.
LABEL:15
VERSE:That which is crooked cannot be made straight; and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.
LABEL:16
VERSE:I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I have gotten me great wisdom above all that were before me in Jerusalem; yea, my heart hath had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also was a striving after wind.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For in much wisdom is much grief; and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.