TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ECC
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:Ecclesiastes 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:For everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heaven:
LABEL:2
VERSE:a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;
LABEL:3
VERSE:a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;
LABEL:4
VERSE:a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;
LABEL:5
VERSE:a time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;
LABEL:6
VERSE:a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;
LABEL:7
VERSE:a time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;
LABEL:8
VERSE:a time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace.
LABEL:9
VERSE:What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth?
LABEL:10
VERSE:I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith.
LABEL:11
VERSE:He hath made everything beautiful in its time: also he hath set eternity in their heart, yet so that man cannot find out the work that God hath done from the beginning even to the end.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I know that there is nothing better for them, than to rejoice, and to do good so long as they live.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy good in all his labor, is the gift of God.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it; and God hath done it, that men should fear before him.
LABEL:15
VERSE:That which is hath been long ago; and that which is to be hath long ago been: and God seeketh again that which is passed away.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And moreover I saw under the sun, in the place of justice, that wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, that wickedness was there.
LABEL:17
VERSE:I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the wicked; for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.
LABEL:18
VERSE:I said in my heart, It is because of the sons of men, that God may prove them, and that they may see that they themselves are but as beasts.
LABEL:19
VERSE:For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; and man hath no preeminence above the beasts: for all is vanity.
LABEL:20
VERSE:All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Who knoweth the spirit of man, whether it goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast, whether it goeth downward to the earth?
LABEL:22
VERSE:Wherefore I saw that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him back to see what shall be after him?