TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ECC
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:Ecclesiastes 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:Then I returned and saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and, behold, the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Wherefore I praised the dead that have been long dead more than the living that are yet alive;
LABEL:3
VERSE:yea, better than them both did I esteem him that hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Then I saw all labor and every skilful work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbor. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.
LABEL:5
VERSE:The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Better is a handful, with quietness, than two handfuls with labor and striving after wind.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then I returned and saw vanity under the sun.
LABEL:8
VERSE:There is one that is alone, and he hath not a second; yea, he hath neither son nor brother; yet is there no end of all his labor, neither are his eyes satisfied with riches. For whom then, saith he, do I labor, and deprive my soul of good? This also is vanity, yea, it is a sore travail.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow; but woe to him that is alone when he falleth, and hath not another to lift him up.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth; but how can one be warm alone?
LABEL:12
VERSE:And if a man prevail against him that is alone, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king, who knoweth not how to receive admonition any more.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For out of prison he came forth to be king; yea, even in his kingdom he was born poor.
LABEL:15
VERSE:I saw all the living that walk under the sun, that they were with the youth, the second, that stood up in his stead.
LABEL:16
VERSE:There was no end of all the people, even of all them over whom he was: yet they that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after wind.