TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:COL
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:Colossians 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:If then ye were raised together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated on the right hand of God.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are upon the earth.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For ye died, and your life is hid with Christ in God.
LABEL:4
VERSE:When Christ, who is our life, shall be manifested, then shall ye also with him be manifested in glory.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Put to death therefore your members which are upon the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry;
LABEL:6
VERSE:for which things’ sake cometh the wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience:
LABEL:7
VERSE:wherein ye also once walked, when ye lived in these things;
LABEL:8
VERSE:but now do ye also put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, railing, shameful speaking out of your mouth:
LABEL:9
VERSE:lie not one to another; seeing that ye have put off the old man with his doings,
LABEL:10
VERSE:and have put on the new man, that is being renewed unto knowledge after the image of him that created him:
LABEL:11
VERSE:where there cannot be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondman, freeman; but Christ is all, and in all.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Put on therefore, as God’s elect, holy and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, longsuffering;
LABEL:13
VERSE:forbearing one another, and forgiving each other, if any man have a complaint against any; even as the Lord forgave you, so also do ye:
LABEL:14
VERSE:and above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfectness.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to the which also ye were called in one body; and be ye thankful.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts unto God.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And whatsoever ye do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Wives, be in subjection to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing in the Lord.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Fathers, provoke not your children, that they be not discouraged.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Servants, obey in all things them that are your masters according to the flesh; not with eye-service, as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing the Lord:
LABEL:23
VERSE:whatsoever ye do, work heartily, as unto the Lord, and not unto men;
LABEL:24
VERSE:knowing that from the Lord ye shall receive the recompense of the inheritance: ye serve the Lord Christ.
LABEL:25
VERSE:For he that doeth wrong shall receive again for the wrong that he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.