TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:COL
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:Colossians 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:Masters, render unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Continue stedfastly in prayer, watching therein with thanksgiving;
LABEL:3
VERSE:withal praying for us also, that God may open unto us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds;
LABEL:4
VERSE:that I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer each one.
LABEL:7
VERSE:All my affairs shall Tychicus make known unto you, the beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow-servant in the Lord:
LABEL:8
VERSE:whom I have sent unto you for this very purpose, that ye may know our state, and that he may comfort your hearts;
LABEL:9
VERSE:together with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known unto you all things that are done here.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Aristarchus my fellow-prisoner saluteth you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (touching whom ye received commandments; if he come unto you, receive him),
LABEL:11
VERSE:and Jesus that is called Justus, who are of the circumcision: these only are my fellow-workers unto the kingdom of God, men that have been a comfort unto me.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus, saluteth you, always striving for you in his prayers, that ye may stand perfect and fully assured in all the will of God.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For I bear him witness, that he hath much labor for you, and for them in Laodicea, and for them in Hierapolis.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas salute you.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Salute the brethren that are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church that is in their house.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And when this epistle hath been read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye also read the epistle from Laodicea.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.
LABEL:18
VERSE:The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you.