TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JDG
CHAPTER:13
TITLE:Judges 13
LABEL:1
VERSE:And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
LABEL:5
VERSE:for, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of the angel of God, very terrible; and I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:
LABEL:7
VERSE:but he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb to the day of his death.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Then Manoah entreated Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, I pray thee, let the man of God whom thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah her husband was not with her.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And the woman made haste, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? And he said, I am.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass: what shall be the ordering of the child, and how shall we do unto him?
LABEL:13
VERSE:And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware.
LABEL:14
VERSE:She may not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; all that I commanded her let her observe.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us detain thee, that we may make ready a kid for thee.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou wilt make ready a burnt-offering, thou must offer it unto Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy words come to pass, we may do thee honor?
LABEL:18
VERSE:And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Wherefore askest thou after my name, seeing it is wonderful?
LABEL:19
VERSE:So Manoah took the kid with the meal-offering, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah: and the angel did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife looked on.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar: and Manoah and his wife looked on; and they fell on their faces to the ground.
LABEL:21
VERSE:But the angel of Jehovah did no more appear to Manoah or to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of Jehovah.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
LABEL:23
VERSE:But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hand, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would at this time have told such things as these.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.