TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JDG
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:Judges 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, even as many of Israel as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
LABEL:2
VERSE:only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as beforetime knew nothing thereof:
LABEL:3
VERSE:namely, the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-hermon unto the entrance of Hamath.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And they were left, to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites:
LABEL:6
VERSE:and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters to their sons and served their gods.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asheroth.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a saviour to the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah delivered Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand: and his hand prevailed against Cushan-rishathaim.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of palm-trees.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
LABEL:15
VERSE:But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a saviour, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left-handed. And the children of Israel sent tribute by him unto Eglon the king of Moab.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And Ehud made him a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right thigh.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And he offered the tribute unto Eglon king of Moab: now Eglon was a very fat man.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And when he had made an end of offering the tribute, he sent away the people that bare the tribute.
LABEL:19
VERSE:But he himself turned back from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king. And he said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the cool upper room. And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he arose out of his seat.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
LABEL:22
VERSE:and the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, for he drew not the sword out of his body; and it came out behind.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Then Ehud went forth into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper room upon him, and locked them.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Now when he was gone out, his servants came; and they saw, and, behold, the doors of the upper room were locked; and they said, Surely he is covering his feet in the upper chamber.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And they tarried till they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper room: therefore they took the key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And Ehud escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped unto Seirah.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And he said unto them, Follow after me; for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and suffered not a man to pass over.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And they smote of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, every lusty man, and every man of valor; and there escaped not a man.
LABEL:30
VERSE:So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
LABEL:31
VERSE:And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who smote of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox-goad: and he also saved Israel.