TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:JAS
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:James 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring, in goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment;
LABEL:3
VERSE:and ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place; and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool:
LABEL:4
VERSE:are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become judges of evil thoughts?
LABEL:5
VERSE:Hearken, my beloved brethren, Hath not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him?
LABEL:6
VERSE:But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you, and draw you before the judgment seats?
LABEL:7
VERSE:Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are called?
LABEL:8
VERSE:If ye fulfil the royal law according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself, ye do well:
LABEL:9
VERSE:but if ye have respect to persons, ye commit sin, and are convinced of the law as transgressors.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law.
LABEL:12
VERSE:So speak ye, and so do, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For he shall have judgment without mercy, that hath shewed no mercy; and mercy rejoiceth against judgment.
LABEL:14
VERSE:What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? can faith save him?
LABEL:15
VERSE:If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food,
LABEL:16
VERSE:and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit?
LABEL:17
VERSE:Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the devils also believe, and tremble.
LABEL:20
VERSE:But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?
LABEL:21
VERSE:Was not Abraham our father justified by works, when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar?
LABEL:22
VERSE:Seest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect?
LABEL:23
VERSE:And the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness: and he was called the Friend of God.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when she had received the messengers, and had sent them out another way?
LABEL:26
VERSE:For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also.