TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:JAS
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:James 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, that they may obey us; and we turn about their whole body.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth!
LABEL:6
VERSE:And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature; and it is set on fire of hell.
LABEL:7
VERSE:For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind:
LABEL:8
VERSE:but the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter?
LABEL:12
VERSE:Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine, figs? so can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him shew out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth.
LABEL:15
VERSE:This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace.