TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:JAS
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:James 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:From whence come wars and fightings among you? come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members?
LABEL:2
VERSE:Ye lust, and have not: ye kill, and desire to have, and cannot obtain: ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy?
LABEL:6
VERSE:But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother, and judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and judgeth the law: but if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge.
LABEL:12
VERSE:There is one lawgiver, who is able to save and to destroy: who art thou that judgest another?
LABEL:13
VERSE:Go to now, ye that say, To day or to morrow we will go into such a city, and continue there a year, and buy and sell, and get gain:
LABEL:14
VERSE:whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapour, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, we shall live, and do this, or that.
LABEL:16
VERSE:But now ye rejoice in your boastings: all such rejoicing is evil.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.