TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:HOS
CHAPTER:5
TITLE:Hosea 5
SECTION:Against Priests and Kings
LABEL:1
VERSE:Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment is toward you, because ye have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And the revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I have been a rebuker of them all.
LABEL:3
VERSE:I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim, thou committest whoredom, and Israel is defiled.
LABEL:4
VERSE:They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known the LORD.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity; Judah also shall fall with them.
LABEL:6
VERSE:They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the LORD; but they shall not find him; he hath withdrawn himself from them.
LABEL:7
VERSE:They have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their portions.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud at Beth-aven, after thee, O Benjamin.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be.
LABEL:10
VERSE:The princes of Judah were like them that remove the bound: therefore I will pour out my wrath upon them like water.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Ephraim is oppressed and broken in judgment, because he willingly walked after the commandment.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness.
LABEL:13
VERSE:When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb: yet could he not heal you, nor cure you of your wound.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will take away, and none shall rescue him.
LABEL:15
VERSE:I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me early.