TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:HOS
CHAPTER:7
TITLE:Hosea 7
SECTION:A Half-baked Cake
LABEL:1
VERSE:When I would have healed Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim was discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they commit falsehood; and the thief cometh in, and the troop of robbers spoileth without.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness: now their own doings have beset them about; they are before my face.
LABEL:3
VERSE:They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies.
LABEL:4
VERSE:They are all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, who ceaseth from raising after he hath kneaded the dough, until it be leavened.
LABEL:5
VERSE:In the day of our king the princes have made him sick with bottles of wine; he stretched out his hand with scorners.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For they have made ready their heart like an oven, whiles they lie in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth as a flaming fire.
LABEL:7
VERSE:They are all hot as an oven, and have devoured their judges; all their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake not turned.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not: yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, yet he knoweth not.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face: and they do not return to the LORD their God, nor seek him for all this.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart: they call to Egypt, they go to Assyria.
LABEL:12
VERSE:When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them, as their congregation hath heard.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Woe unto them! for they have fled from me: destruction unto them! because they have transgressed against me: though I have redeemed them, yet they have spoken lies against me.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And they have not cried unto me with their heart, when they howled upon their beds: they assemble themselves for corn and wine, and they rebel against me.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Though I have bound and strengthened their arms, yet do they imagine mischief against me.
LABEL:16
VERSE:They return, but not to the most High: they are like a deceitful bow: their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.