TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:MAL
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Malachi 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:The burden of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi.
LABEL:2
VERSE:I have loved you, saith the LORD. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? saith the LORD: yet I loved Jacob,
LABEL:3
VERSE:and I hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places; thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and they shall call them, The border of wickedness, and, The people against whom the LORD hath indignation for ever.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, The LORD will be magnified from the border of Israel.
LABEL:6
VERSE:A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I be a father, where is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is my fear? saith the LORD of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name?
LABEL:7
VERSE:Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of the LORD  is contemptible.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? and if ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? offer it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saith the LORD of hosts.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And now, I pray you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us: this hath been by your means: will he regard your persons? saith the LORD of hosts.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Who is there even among you that would shut the doors for nought? neither do ye kindle fire on mine altar for nought. I have no pleasure in you, saith the LORD of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name shall be great among the heathen, saith the LORD of hosts.
LABEL:12
VERSE:But ye have profaned it, in that ye say, The table of the LORD  is polluted; and the fruit thereof, even his meat, is contemptible.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Ye said also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffed at it, saith the LORD of hosts; and ye brought that which was torn, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye brought an offering: should I accept this of your hand? saith the LORD.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing: for I am a great King, saith the LORD of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the heathen.