TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:EXO
CHAPTER:27
TITLE:Exodus 27
LABEL:1
VERSE:“You shall make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits wide. The altar shall be square. Its height shall be three cubits.
LABEL:2
VERSE:You shall make its horns on its four corners. Its horns shall be of one piece with it. You shall overlay it with bronze.
LABEL:3
VERSE:You shall make its pots to take away its ashes; and its shovels, its basins, its meat hooks, and its fire pans. You shall make all its vessels of bronze.
LABEL:4
VERSE:You shall make a grating for it of network of bronze. On the net you shall make four bronze rings in its four corners.
LABEL:5
VERSE:You shall put it under the ledge around the altar beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the altar.
LABEL:6
VERSE:You shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with bronze.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Its poles shall be put into the rings, and the poles shall be on the two sides of the altar when carrying it.
LABEL:8
VERSE:You shall make it hollow with planks. They shall make it as it has been shown you on the mountain.
LABEL:9
VERSE:“You shall make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen one hundred cubits long for one side.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Its pillars shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of bronze. The hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Likewise for the length of the north side, there shall be hangings one hundred cubits long, and its pillars twenty, and their sockets twenty, of bronze; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For the width of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
LABEL:13
VERSE:The width of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
LABEL:14
VERSE:The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four.
LABEL:17
VERSE:All the pillars of the court around shall be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of bronze.
LABEL:18
VERSE:The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits, and the width fifty throughout, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of bronze.
LABEL:19
VERSE:All the instruments of the tabernacle in all its service, and all its pins, and all the pins of the court, shall be of bronze.
LABEL:20
VERSE:“You shall command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
LABEL:21
VERSE:In the Tent of Meeting, outside the veil which is before the covenant, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh: it shall be a statute forever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.