TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:EXO
CHAPTER:31
TITLE:Exodus 31
LABEL:1
VERSE:Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:“Behold, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
LABEL:3
VERSE:I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all kinds of workmanship,
LABEL:4
VERSE:to devise skillful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in bronze,
LABEL:5
VERSE:and in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of workmanship.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Behold, I myself have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all who are wise-hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded you:
LABEL:7
VERSE:the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the covenant, the mercy seat that is on it, all the furniture of the Tent,
LABEL:8
VERSE:the table and its vessels, the pure lamp stand with all its vessels, the altar of incense,
LABEL:9
VERSE:the altar of burnt offering with all its vessels, the basin and its base,
LABEL:10
VERSE:the finely worked garments—the holy garments for Aaron the priest, the garments of his sons to minister in the priest’s office—
LABEL:11
VERSE:the anointing oil, and the incense of sweet spices for the holy place: according to all that I have commanded you they shall do.”
LABEL:12
VERSE:Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
LABEL:13
VERSE:“Speak also to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Most certainly you shall keep my Sabbaths; for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies you.
LABEL:14
VERSE:You shall keep the Sabbath therefore, for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to Yahweh. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall surely be put to death.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant.
LABEL:17
VERSE:It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed.’”
LABEL:18
VERSE:When he finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, he gave Moses the two tablets of the covenant, stone tablets, written with God’s finger.