TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:MRK
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Mark 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Even as it is written in Isaiah the prophet,
VERSE:Behold, I send my messenger before thy face,
VERSE:Who shall prepare thy way;
LABEL:3
VERSE:The voice of one crying in the wilderness,
VERSE:Make ye ready the way of the Lord,
VERSE:Make his paths straight;
LABEL:4
VERSE:John came, who baptized in the wilderness and preached the baptism of repentance unto remission of sins.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And there went out unto him all the country of Judæa, and all they of Jerusalem; and they were baptized of him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And John was clothed with camel’s hair, and had a leathern girdle about his loins, and did eat locusts and wild honey.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And he preached, saying, There cometh after me he that is mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
LABEL:8
VERSE:I baptized you in water; but he shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in the Jordan.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens rent asunder, and the Spirit as a dove descending upon him:
LABEL:11
VERSE:and a voice came out of the heavens, Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And straightway the Spirit driveth him forth into the wilderness.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And he was in the wilderness forty days tempted of Satan; and he was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Now after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God,
LABEL:15
VERSE:and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe in the gospel.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And passing along by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net in the sea; for they were fishers.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And straightway they left the nets, and followed him.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And going on a little further, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending the nets.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And they go into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And they were astonished at his teaching: for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And straightway there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out,
LABEL:24
VERSE:saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus thou Nazarene? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And the unclean spirit, tearing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? a new teaching! with authority he commandeth even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And the report of him went out straightway everywhere into all the region of Galilee round about.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And straightway, when they were come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Now Simon’s wife’s mother lay sick of a fever; and straightway they tell him of her:
LABEL:31
VERSE:and he came and took her by the hand, and raised her up; and the fever left her, and she ministered unto them.
LABEL:32
VERSE:And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were sick, and them that were possessed with demons.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And all the city was gathered together at the door.
LABEL:34
VERSE:And he healed many that were sick with divers diseases, and cast out many demons; and he suffered not the demons to speak, because they knew him.
LABEL:35
VERSE:And in the morning, a great while before day, he rose up and went out, and departed into a desert place, and there prayed.
LABEL:36
VERSE:And Simon and they that were with him followed after him;
LABEL:37
VERSE:and they found him, and say unto him, All are seeking thee.
LABEL:38
VERSE:And he saith unto them, Let us go elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also; for to this end came I forth.
LABEL:39
VERSE:And he went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons.
LABEL:40
VERSE:And there cometh to him a leper, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
LABEL:41
VERSE:And being moved with compassion, he stretched forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou made clean.
LABEL:42
VERSE:And straightway the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean.
LABEL:43
VERSE:And he strictly charged him, and straightway sent him out,
LABEL:44
VERSE:and saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
LABEL:45
VERSE:But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to spread abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into a city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.