TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:MRK
CHAPTER:16
TITLE:Mark 16
LABEL:1
VERSE:And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that they might come and anoint him.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And very early on the first day of the week, they come to the tomb when the sun was risen.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And they were saying among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the tomb?
LABEL:4
VERSE:and looking up, they see that the stone is rolled back: for it was exceeding great.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, arrayed in a white robe; and they were amazed.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And he saith unto them, Be not amazed: ye seek Jesus, the Nazarene, who hath been crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold, the place where they laid him!
LABEL:7
VERSE:But go, tell his disciples and Peter, He goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And they went out, and fled from the tomb; for trembling and astonishment had come upon them: and they said nothing to any one; for they were afraid.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Now when he was risen early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.
LABEL:10
VERSE:She went and told them that had been with him, as they mourned and wept.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And they, when they heard that he was alive, and had been seen of her, disbelieved.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And after these things he was manifested in another form unto two of them, as they walked, on their way into the country.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And they went away and told it unto the rest: neither believed they them.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And afterward he was manifested unto the eleven themselves as they sat at meat; and he upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them that had seen him after he was risen.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to the whole creation.
LABEL:16
VERSE:He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that disbelieveth shall be condemned.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And these signs shall accompany them that believe: in my name shall they cast out demons; they shall speak with new tongues;
LABEL:18
VERSE:they shall take up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall in no wise hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.
LABEL:19
VERSE:So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken unto them, was received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And they went forth, and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by the signs that followed. Amen.