TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:MRK
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Mark 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:And when he entered again into Capernaum after some days, it was noised that he was in the house.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room for them, no, not even about the door: and he spake the word unto them.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And they come, bringing unto him a man sick of the palsy, borne of four.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And when they could not come nigh unto him for the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed whereon the sick of the palsy lay.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And Jesus seeing their faith saith unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins are forgiven.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But there were certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,
LABEL:7
VERSE:Why doth this man thus speak? he blasphemeth: who can forgive sins but one, even God?
LABEL:8
VERSE:And straightway Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, saith unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts?
LABEL:9
VERSE:Which is easier, to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins are forgiven; or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk?
LABEL:10
VERSE:But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins (he saith to the sick of the palsy),
LABEL:11
VERSE:I say unto thee, Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thy house.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And he arose, and straightway took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphæus sitting at the place of toll, and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And it came to pass, that he was sitting at meat in his house, and many publicans and sinners sat down with Jesus and his disciples: for there were many, and they followed him.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with the sinners and publicans, said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners?
LABEL:17
VERSE:And when Jesus heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting: and they come and say unto him, Why do John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not?
LABEL:19
VERSE:And Jesus said unto them, Can the sons of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
LABEL:20
VERSE:But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then will they fast in that day.
LABEL:21
VERSE:No man seweth a piece of undressed cloth on an old garment: else that which should fill it up taketh from it, the new from the old, and a worse rent is made.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And no man putteth new wine into old wine-skins; else the wine will burst the skins, and the wine perisheth, and the skins: but they put new wine into fresh wine-skins.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And it came to pass, that he was going on the sabbath day through the grainfields; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful?
LABEL:25
VERSE:And he said unto them, Did ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry, he, and they that were with him?
LABEL:26
VERSE:How he entered into the house of God when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the showbread, which it is not lawful to eat save for the priests, and gave also to them that were with him?
LABEL:27
VERSE:And he said unto them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath:
LABEL:28
VERSE:so that the Son of man is lord even of the sabbath.