TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:2TI
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:2 Timothy 3
SECTION:In Perilous Times
LABEL:1
VERSE:This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
LABEL:3
VERSE:without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good,
LABEL:4
VERSE:traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God;
LABEL:5
VERSE:having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers lusts,
LABEL:7
VERSE:ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Now as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But they shall proceed no further: for their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as theirs also was.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, longsuffering, charity, patience,
LABEL:11
VERSE:persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured: but out of them all the Lord delivered me.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution.
LABEL:13
VERSE:But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving, and being deceived.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them;
LABEL:15
VERSE:and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:16
VERSE:All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness:
LABEL:17
VERSE:that the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works.