TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:MIC
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Micah 6
LABEL:1
VERSE:Hear ye now what Jehovah saith: Arise, contend thou before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Hear, O ye mountains, Jehovah’s controversy, and ye enduring foundations of the earth; for Jehovah hath a controversy with his people, and he will contend with Israel.
LABEL:3
VERSE:O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I wearied thee? testify against me.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of bondage; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
LABEL:5
VERSE:O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him; remember from Shittim unto Gilgal, that ye may know the righteous acts of Jehovah.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Wherewith shall I come before Jehovah, and bow myself before the high God? shall I come before him with burnt-offerings, with calves a year old?
LABEL:7
VERSE:will Jehovah be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my first-born for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?
LABEL:8
VERSE:He hath showed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with thy God?
LABEL:9
VERSE:The voice of Jehovah crieth unto the city, and the man of wisdom will see thy name: hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a scant measure that is abominable?
LABEL:11
VERSE:Shall I be pure with wicked balances, and with a bag of deceitful weights?
LABEL:12
VERSE:For the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Therefore I also have smitten thee with a grievous wound; I have made thee desolate because of thy sins.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; and thy humiliation shall be in the midst of thee: and thou shalt put away, but shalt not save; and that which thou savest will I give up to the sword.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Thou shalt sow, but shalt not reap; thou shalt tread the olives, but shalt not anoint thee with oil; and the vintage, but shalt not drink the wine.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels; that I may make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof a hissing: and ye shall bear the reproach of my people.