TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:MIC
CHAPTER:7
TITLE:Micah 7
LABEL:1
VERSE:Woe is me! for I am as when they have gathered the summer fruits, as the grape gleanings of the vintage: there is no cluster to eat; my soul desireth the first-ripe fig.
LABEL:2
VERSE:The godly man is perished out of the earth, and there is none upright among men: they all lie in wait for blood; they hunt every man his brother with a net.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Their hands are upon that which is evil to do it diligently; the prince asketh, and the judge is ready for a reward; and the great man, he uttereth the evil desire of his soul: thus they weave it together.
LABEL:4
VERSE:The best of them is as a brier; the most upright is worse than a thorn hedge: the day of thy watchmen, even thy visitation, is come; now shall be their perplexity.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Trust ye not in a neighbor; put ye not confidence in a friend; keep the doors of thy mouth from her that lieth in thy bosom.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For the son dishonoreth the father, the daughter riseth up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man’s enemies are the men of his own house.
LABEL:7
VERSE:But as for me, I will look unto Jehovah; I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will hear me.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arise; when I sit in darkness, Jehovah will be a light unto me.
LABEL:9
VERSE:I will bear the indignation of Jehovah, because I have sinned against him, until he plead my cause, and execute judgment for me: he will bring me forth to the light, and I shall behold his righteousness.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Then mine enemy shall see it, and shame shall cover her who said unto me, Where is Jehovah thy God? Mine eyes shall see my desire upon her; now shall she be trodden down as the mire of the streets.
LABEL:11
VERSE:A day for building thy walls! in that day shall the decree be far removed.
LABEL:12
VERSE:In that day shall they come unto thee from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt even to the River, and from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Yet shall the land be desolate because of them that dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Feed thy people with thy rod, the flock of thy heritage, which dwell solitarily, in the forest in the midst of Carmel: let them feed in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.
LABEL:15
VERSE:As in the days of thy coming forth out of the land of Egypt will I show unto them marvellous things.
LABEL:16
VERSE:The nations shall see and be ashamed of all their might; they shall lay their hand upon their mouth; their ears shall be deaf.
LABEL:17
VERSE:They shall lick the dust like a serpent; like crawling things of the earth they shall come trembling out of their close places; they shall come with fear unto Jehovah our God, and shall be afraid because of thee.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Who is a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth over the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delighteth in lovingkindness.
LABEL:19
VERSE:He will again have compassion upon us; he will tread our iniquities under foot; and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, and the lovingkindness to Abraham, which thou hast sworn unto our fathers from the days of old.