TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:Genesis 12
SECTION:God calls Abraham
LABEL:1
VERSE:Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee:
LABEL:2
VERSE:and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:
LABEL:3
VERSE:and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.
LABEL:4
VERSE:So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who appeared unto him.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Beth-el, and pitched his tent, having Beth-el on the west, and Hai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name of the LORD.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon:
LABEL:12
VERSE:therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.
LABEL:15
VERSE:The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses, and camels.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram's wife.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?
LABEL:19
VERSE:Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me to wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him away, and his wife, and all that he had.