TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:18
TITLE:Genesis 18
LABEL:1
VERSE:And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day;
LABEL:2
VERSE:and he lift up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the ground,
LABEL:3
VERSE:and said, My Lord, if now I have found favour in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant:
LABEL:4
VERSE:let a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree:
LABEL:5
VERSE:and I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes upon the hearth.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good, and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?
LABEL:13
VERSE:And the LORD said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old?
LABEL:14
VERSE:Is any thing too hard for the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.
SECTION:The Cities of the Plain
LABEL:16
VERSE:And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do;
LABEL:18
VERSE:seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
LABEL:19
VERSE:For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous;
LABEL:21
VERSE:I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked?
LABEL:24
VERSE:Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein?
LABEL:25
VERSE:That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?
LABEL:26
VERSE:And the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which am but dust and ashes:
LABEL:28
VERSE:peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's sake.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And he said unto him, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do it, if I find thirty there.
LABEL:31
VERSE:And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake.
LABEL:32
VERSE:And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.