TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:20
TITLE:Genesis 20
SECTION:Abraham and Abimelech
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him, Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken; for she is a man's wife.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, Lord, wilt thou slay also a righteous nation?
LABEL:5
VERSE:Said he not unto me, She is my sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were sore afraid.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing?
LABEL:11
VERSE:And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife's sake.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my brother.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where it pleaseth thee.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was reproved.
LABEL:17
VERSE:So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.