TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:32
TITLE:Genesis 32
SECTION:Jacob and Esau
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now:
LABEL:5
VERSE:and I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find grace in thy sight.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels, into two bands;
LABEL:8
VERSE:and said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee:
LABEL:10
VERSE:I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two bands.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the mother with the children.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother;
LABEL:14
VERSE:two hundred she goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams,
LABEL:15
VERSE:thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls, twenty she asses, and ten foals.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither goest thou? and whose are these before thee?
LABEL:18
VERSE:Then thou shalt say, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.
LABEL:21
VERSE:So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that night in the company.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that he had.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.
LABEL:31
VERSE:And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh.
LABEL:32
VERSE:Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.