TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:COL
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:Colossians 3
SECTION:His Sovereign Will
LABEL:1
VERSE:If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.
LABEL:4
VERSE:When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth; fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry:
LABEL:6
VERSE:for which things' sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience:
LABEL:7
VERSE:in the which ye also walked some time, when ye lived in them.
LABEL:8
VERSE:But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds;
LABEL:10
VERSE:and have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him:
LABEL:11
VERSE:where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in all.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering;
LABEL:13
VERSE:forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the Lord.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well pleasing unto the Lord.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh; not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but in singleness of heart, fearing God:
LABEL:23
VERSE:and whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto men;
LABEL:24
VERSE:knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ.
LABEL:25
VERSE:But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.