TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:COL
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:Colossians 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;
LABEL:3
VERSE:withal praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds:
LABEL:4
VERSE:that I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man.
LABEL:7
VERSE:All my state shall Tychicus declare unto you, who is a beloved brother, and a faithful minister and fellowservant in the Lord:
LABEL:8
VERSE:whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might know your estate, and comfort your hearts;
LABEL:9
VERSE:with Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known unto you all things which are done here.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you, and Marcus, sister's son to Barnabas, (touching whom ye received commandments: if he come unto you, receive him;)
LABEL:11
VERSE:and Jesus, which is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These only are my fellowworkers unto the kingdom of God, which have been a comfort unto me.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church which is in his house.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.
LABEL:18
VERSE:The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen.
VERSE:Written from Rome to the Colossians by Tychicus and Onesimus.