TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:2TI
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:2 Timothy 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:But know this: that in the last days, grievous times will come.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, arrogant, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
LABEL:3
VERSE:without natural affection, unforgiving, slanderers, without self-control, fierce, not lovers of good,
LABEL:4
VERSE:traitors, headstrong, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
LABEL:5
VERSE:holding a form of godliness but having denied its power. Turn away from these, also.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For some of these are people who creep into houses and take captive gullible women loaded down with sins, led away by various lusts,
LABEL:7
VERSE:always learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Even as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these also oppose the truth, men corrupted in mind, who concerning the faith are rejected.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But they will proceed no further. For their folly will be evident to all men, as theirs also came to be.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But you followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, steadfastness,
LABEL:11
VERSE:persecutions, and sufferings—those things that happened to me at Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra. I endured those persecutions. The Lord delivered me out of them all.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution.
LABEL:13
VERSE:But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But you remain in the things which you have learned and have been assured of, knowing from whom you have learned them.
LABEL:15
VERSE:From infancy, you have known the holy Scriptures which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Every Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for instruction in righteousness,
LABEL:17
VERSE:that each person who belongs to God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work.