TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:LUK
CHAPTER:16
TITLE:Luke 16
LABEL:1
VERSE:And he said also unto the disciples, There was a certain rich man, who had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he was wasting his goods.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And he called him, and said unto him, What is this that I hear of thee? render the account of thy stewardship; for thou canst be no longer steward.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And the steward said within himself, What shall I do, seeing that my lord taketh away the stewardship from me? I have not strength to dig; to beg I am ashamed.
LABEL:4
VERSE:I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And calling to him each one of his lord’s debtors, he said to the first, How much owest thou unto my lord?
LABEL:6
VERSE:And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bond, and sit down quickly and write fifty.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. He saith unto him, Take thy bond, and write fourscore.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And his lord commended the unrighteous steward because he had done wisely: for the sons of this world are for their own generation wiser than the sons of the light.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends by means of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when it shall fail, they may receive you into the eternal tabernacles.
LABEL:10
VERSE:He that is faithful in a very little is faithful also in much: and he that is unrighteous in a very little is unrighteous also in much.
LABEL:11
VERSE:If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?
LABEL:12
VERSE:And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another’s, who will give you that which is your own?
LABEL:13
VERSE:No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things; and they scoffed at him.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And he said unto them, Ye are they that justify yourselves in the sight of men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.
LABEL:16
VERSE:The law and the prophets were until John: from that time the gospel of the kingdom of God is preached, and every man entereth violently into it.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one tittle of the law to fall.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Every one that putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and he that marrieth one that is put away from a husband committeth adultery.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Now there was a certain rich man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, faring sumptuously every day:
LABEL:20
VERSE:and a certain beggar named Lazarus was laid at his gate, full of sores,
LABEL:21
VERSE:and desiring to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich man’s table; yea, even the dogs came and licked his sores.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and that he was carried away by the angels into Abraham’s bosom: and the rich man also died, and was buried.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am in anguish in this flame.
LABEL:25
VERSE:But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and Lazarus in like manner evil things: but now here he is comforted, and thou art in anguish.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And besides all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, that they that would pass from hence to you may not be able, and that none may cross over from thence to us.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father’s house;
LABEL:28
VERSE:for I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
LABEL:29
VERSE:But Abraham saith, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one go to them from the dead, they will repent.
LABEL:31
VERSE:And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, if one rise from the dead.