TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:GEN
CHAPTER:20
TITLE:Genesis 20
LABEL:1
VERSE:Abraham traveled from there toward the land of the South, and lived between Kadesh and Shur. He lived as a foreigner in Gerar.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Abraham said about Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, and said to him, “Behold, you are a dead man, because of the woman whom you have taken; for she is a man’s wife.”
LABEL:4
VERSE:Now Abimelech had not come near her. He said, “Lord, will you kill even a righteous nation?
LABEL:5
VERSE:Didn’t he tell me, ‘She is my sister’? She, even she herself, said, ‘He is my brother.’ I have done this in the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands.”
LABEL:6
VERSE:God said to him in the dream, “Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also withheld you from sinning against me. Therefore I didn’t allow you to touch her.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Now therefore, restore the man’s wife. For he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you will live. If you don’t restore her, know for sure that you will die, you, and all who are yours.”
LABEL:8
VERSE:Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ear. The men were very scared.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, “What have you done to us? How have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? You have done deeds to me that ought not to be done!”
LABEL:10
VERSE:Abimelech said to Abraham, “What did you see, that you have done this thing?”
LABEL:11
VERSE:Abraham said, “Because I thought, ‘Surely the fear of God is not in this place. They will kill me for my wife’s sake.’
LABEL:12
VERSE:Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
LABEL:13
VERSE:When God caused me to wander from my father’s house, I said to her, ‘This is your kindness which you shall show to me. Everywhere that we go, say of me, “He is my brother.”’”
LABEL:14
VERSE:Abimelech took sheep and cattle, male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and restored Sarah, his wife, to him.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Abimelech said, “Behold, my land is before you. Dwell where it pleases you.”
LABEL:16
VERSE:To Sarah he said, “Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. Behold, it is for you a covering of the eyes to all that are with you. In front of all you are vindicated.”
LABEL:17
VERSE:Abraham prayed to God. So God healed Abimelech, his wife, and his female servants, and they bore children.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For Yahweh had closed up tight all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.