TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ACT
CHAPTER:23
TITLE:Acts 23
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Paul, looking stedfastly on the council, said, Brethren, I have lived before God in all good conscience until this day.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him to smite him on the mouth.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee, thou whited wall: and sittest thou to judge me according to the law, and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law?
LABEL:4
VERSE:And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God’s high priest?
LABEL:5
VERSE:And Paul said, I knew not, brethren, that he was high priest: for it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of a ruler of thy people.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Brethren, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees: touching the hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in question.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And when he had so said, there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and Sadducees; and the assembly was divided.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel, nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess both.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And there arose a great clamor: and some of the scribes of the Pharisees’ part stood up, and strove, saying, We find no evil in this man: and what if a spirit hath spoken to him, or an angel?
LABEL:10
VERSE:And when there arose a great dissension, the chief captain, fearing lest Paul should be torn in pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take him by force from among them, and bring him into the castle.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer: for as thou hast testified concerning me at Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And when it was day, the Jews banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And they were more than forty that made this conspiracy.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And they came to the chief priests and the elders, and said, We have bound ourselves under a great curse, to taste nothing until we have killed Paul.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Now therefore do ye with the council signify to the chief captain that he bring him down unto you, as though ye would judge of his case more exactly: and we, before he comes near, are ready to slay him.
LABEL:16
VERSE:But Paul’s sister’s son heard of their lying in wait, and he came and entered into the castle and told Paul.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And Paul called unto him one of the centurions, and said, Bring this young man unto the chief captain; for he hath something to tell him.
LABEL:18
VERSE:So he took him, and brought him to the chief captain, and saith, Paul the prisoner called me unto him, and asked me to bring this young man unto thee, who hath something to say to thee.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And the chief captain took him by the hand, and going aside asked him privately, What is it that thou hast to tell me?
LABEL:20
VERSE:And he said, The Jews have agreed to ask thee to bring down Paul to-morrow unto the council, as though thou wouldest inquire somewhat more exactly concerning him.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Do not thou therefore yield unto them: for there lie in wait for him of them more than forty men, who have bound themselves under a curse, neither to eat nor to drink till they have slain him: and now are they ready, looking for the promise from thee.
LABEL:22
VERSE:So the chief captain let the young man go, charging him, Tell no man that thou hast signified these things to me.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And he called unto him two of the centurions, and said, Make ready two hundred soldiers to go as far as Cæsarea, and horsemen threescore and ten, and spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night:
LABEL:24
VERSE:and he bade them provide beasts, that they might set Paul thereon, and bring him safe unto Felix the governor.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And he wrote a letter after this form:
LABEL:26
VERSE:Claudius Lysias unto the most excellent governor Felix, greeting.
LABEL:27
VERSE:This man was seized by the Jews, and was about to be slain of them, when I came upon them with the soldiers and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And desiring to know the cause wherefore they accused him, I brought him down unto their council:
LABEL:29
VERSE:whom I found to be accused about questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to his charge worthy of death or of bonds.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And when it was shown to me that there would be a plot against the man, I sent him to thee forthwith, charging his accusers also to speak against him before thee.
LABEL:31
VERSE:So the soldiers, as it was commanded them, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.
LABEL:32
VERSE:But on the morrow they left the horsemen to go with him, and returned to the castle:
LABEL:33
VERSE:and they, when they came to Cæsarea and delivered the letter to the governor, presented Paul also before him.
LABEL:34
VERSE:And when he had read it, he asked of what province he was; and when he understood that he was of Cilicia,
LABEL:35
VERSE:I will hear thee fully, said he, when thine accusers also are come: and he commanded him to be kept in Herod’s palace.