TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ACT
CHAPTER:24
TITLE:Acts 24
LABEL:1
VERSE:And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with certain elders, and with an orator, one Tertullus; and they informed the governor against Paul.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And when he was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying,
VERSE:Seeing that by thee we enjoy much peace, and that by thy providence evils are corrected for this nation,
LABEL:3
VERSE:we accept it in all ways and in all places, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
LABEL:4
VERSE:But, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I entreat thee to hear us of thy clemency a few words.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes:
LABEL:6
VERSE:who moreover assayed to profane the temple: on whom also we laid hold:
LABEL:7
VERSE:
LABEL:8
VERSE:from whom thou wilt be able, by examining him thyself, to take knowledge of all these things whereof we accuse him.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And the Jews also joined in the charge, affirming that these things were so.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And when the governor had beckoned unto him to speak, Paul answered,
VERSE:Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I cheerfully make my defence:
LABEL:11
VERSE:seeing that thou canst take knowledge that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship at Jerusalem:
LABEL:12
VERSE:and neither in the temple did they find me disputing with any man or stirring up a crowd, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Neither can they prove to thee the things whereof they now accuse me.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But this I confess unto thee, that after the Way which they call a sect, so serve I the God of our fathers, believing all things which are according to the law, and which are written in the prophets;
LABEL:15
VERSE:having hope toward God, which these also themselves look for, that there shall be a resurrection both of the just and unjust.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Herein I also exercise myself to have a conscience void of offence toward God and men always.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Now after some years I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings:
LABEL:18
VERSE:amidst which they found me purified in the temple, with no crowd, nor yet with tumult: but there were certain Jews from Asia—
LABEL:19
VERSE:who ought to have been here before thee, and to make accusation, if they had aught against me.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Or else let these men themselves say what wrong-doing they found when I stood before the council,
LABEL:21
VERSE:except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the resurrection of the dead I am called in question before you this day.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But Felix, having more exact knowledge concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, When Lysias the chief captain shall come down, I will determine your matter.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And he gave order to the centurion that he should be kept in charge, and should have indulgence; and not to forbid any of his friends to minister unto him.
LABEL:24
VERSE:But after certain days, Felix came with Drusilla, his wife, who was a Jewess, and sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And as he reasoned of righteousness, and self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix was terrified, and answered, Go thy way for this time; and when I have a convenient season, I will call thee unto me.
LABEL:26
VERSE:He hoped withal that money would be given him of Paul: wherefore also he sent for him the oftener, and communed with him.
LABEL:27
VERSE:But when two years were fulfilled, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and desiring to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in bonds.