TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ACT
CHAPTER:28
TITLE:Acts 28
LABEL:1
VERSE:And when we were escaped, then we knew that the island was called Melita.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And the barbarians showed us no common kindness: for they kindled a fire, and received us all, because of the present rain, and because of the cold.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out by reason of the heat, and fastened on his hand.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And when the barbarians saw the venomous creature hanging from his hand, they said one to another, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped from the sea, yet Justice hath not suffered to live.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Howbeit he shook off the creature into the fire, and took no harm.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But they expected that he would have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but when they were long in expectation and beheld nothing amiss come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius; who received us, and entertained us three days courteously.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And it was so, that the father of Publius lay sick of fever and dysentery: unto whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laying his hands on him healed him.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And when this was done, the rest also that had diseases in the island came, and were cured:
LABEL:10
VERSE:who also honored us with many honors; and when we sailed, they put on board such things as we needed.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And after three months we set sail in a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, whose sign was The Twin Brothers.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And touching at Syracuse, we tarried there three days.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And from thence we made a circuit, and arrived at Rhegium: and after one day a south wind sprang up, and on the second day we came to Puteoli;
LABEL:14
VERSE:where we found brethren, and were entreated to tarry with them seven days: and so we came to Rome.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And from thence the brethren, when they heard of us, came to meet us as far as The Market of Appius and The Three Taverns; whom when Paul saw, he thanked God, and took courage.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And when we entered into Rome, Paul was suffered to abide by himself with the soldier that guarded him.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And it came to pass, that after three days he called together those that were the chief of the Jews: and when they were come together, he said unto them, I, brethren, though I had done nothing against the people, or the customs of our fathers, yet was delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans:
LABEL:18
VERSE:who, when they had examined me, desired to set me at liberty, because there was no cause of death in me.
LABEL:19
VERSE:But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal unto Cæsar; not that I had aught whereof to accuse my nation.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For this cause therefore did I entreat you to see and to speak with me: for because of the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And they said unto him, We neither received letters from Judæa concerning thee, nor did any of the brethren come hither and report or speak any harm of thee.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is spoken against.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And when they had appointed him a day, they came to him into his lodging in great number; to whom he expounded the matter, testifying the kingdom of God, and persuading them concerning Jesus, both from the law of Moses and from the prophets, from morning till evening.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And some believed the things which were spoken, and some disbelieved.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed after that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Spirit through Isaiah the prophet unto your fathers,
LABEL:26
VERSE:saying,
VERSE:Go thou unto this people, and say,
VERSE:By hearing ye shall hear, and shall in no wise understand;
VERSE:And seeing ye shall see, and shall in no wise perceive:
LABEL:27
VERSE:For this people’s heart is waxed gross,
VERSE:And their ears are dull of hearing,
VERSE:And their eyes they have closed;
VERSE:Lest haply they should perceive with their eyes,
VERSE:And hear with their ears,
VERSE:And understand with their heart,
VERSE:And should turn again,
VERSE:And I should heal them.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Be it known therefore unto you, that this salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles: they will also hear.
LABEL:29
VERSE:
LABEL:30
VERSE:And he abode two whole years in his own hired dwelling, and received all that went in unto him,
LABEL:31
VERSE:preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, none forbidding him.