TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ACT
CHAPTER:8
TITLE:Acts 8
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Saul was consenting unto his death.
VERSE:And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church which was in Jerusalem; and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judæa and Samaria, except the apostles.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And devout men buried Stephen, and made great lamentation over him.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But Saul laid waste the church, entering into every house, and dragging men and women committed them to prison.
LABEL:4
VERSE:They therefore that were scattered abroad went about preaching the word.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and proclaimed unto them the Christ.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And the multitudes gave heed with one accord unto the things that were spoken by Philip, when they heard, and saw the signs which he did.
LABEL:7
VERSE:For from many of those that had unclean spirits, they came out, crying with a loud voice: and many that were palsied, and that were lame, were healed.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And there was much joy in that city.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But there was a certain man, Simon by name, who beforetime in the city used sorcery, and amazed the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one:
LABEL:10
VERSE:to whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is that power of God which is called Great.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And they gave heed to him, because that of long time he had amazed them with his sorceries.
LABEL:12
VERSE:But when they believed Philip preaching good tidings concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And Simon also himself believed: and being baptized, he continued with Philip; and beholding signs and great miracles wrought, he was amazed.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Now when the apostles that were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John:
LABEL:15
VERSE:who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Spirit:
LABEL:16
VERSE:for as yet it was fallen upon none of them: only they had been baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Now when Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles’ hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money,
LABEL:19
VERSE:saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay my hands, he may receive the Holy Spirit.
LABEL:20
VERSE:But Peter said unto him, Thy silver perish with thee, because thou hast thought to obtain the gift of God with money.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart is not right before God.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray the Lord, if perhaps the thought of thy heart shall be forgiven thee.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For I see that thou art in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And Simon answered and said, Pray ye for me to the Lord, that none of the things which ye have spoken come upon me.
LABEL:25
VERSE:They therefore, when they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
LABEL:26
VERSE:But an angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza: the same is desert.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And he arose and went: and behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, who had come to Jerusalem to worship;
LABEL:28
VERSE:and he was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to this chariot.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And Philip ran to him, and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest?
LABEL:31
VERSE:And he said, How can I, except some one shall guide me? And he besought Philip to come up and sit with him.
LABEL:32
VERSE:Now the passage of the scripture which he was reading was this,
VERSE:He was led as a sheep to the slaughter;
VERSE:And as a lamb before his shearer is dumb,
VERSE:So he openeth not his mouth:
LABEL:33
VERSE:In his humiliation his judgment was taken away:
VERSE:His generation who shall declare?
VERSE:For his life is taken from the earth.
LABEL:34
VERSE:And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other?
LABEL:35
VERSE:And Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this scripture, preached unto him Jesus.
LABEL:36
VERSE:And as they went on the way, they came unto a certain water; and the eunuch saith, Behold, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized?
LABEL:37
VERSE:
LABEL:38
VERSE:And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.
LABEL:39
VERSE:And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip; and the eunuch saw him no more, for he went on his way rejoicing.
LABEL:40
VERSE:But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached the gospel to all the cities, till he came to Cæsarea.