TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:2CO
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:2 Corinthians 12
LABEL:1
VERSE:It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast, but I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
LABEL:2
VERSE:I know a man in Christ who was caught up into the third heaven fourteen years ago—whether in the body, I don’t know, or whether out of the body, I don’t know; God knows.
LABEL:3
VERSE:I know such a man (whether in the body, or outside of the body, I don’t know; God knows),
LABEL:4
VERSE:how he was caught up into Paradise and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.
LABEL:5
VERSE:On behalf of such a one I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except in my weaknesses.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For if I would desire to boast, I will not be foolish; for I will speak the truth. But I refrain, so that no man may think more of me than that which he sees in me or hears from me.
LABEL:7
VERSE:By reason of the exceeding greatness of the revelations, that I should not be exalted excessively, a thorn in the flesh was given to me: a messenger of Satan to torment me, that I should not be exalted excessively.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Concerning this thing, I begged the Lord three times that it might depart from me.
LABEL:9
VERSE:He has said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Most gladly therefore I will rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest on me.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Therefore I take pleasure in weaknesses, in injuries, in necessities, in persecutions, and in distresses, for Christ’s sake. For when I am weak, then am I strong.
LABEL:11
VERSE:I have become foolish in boasting. You compelled me, for I ought to have been commended by you, for I am in no way inferior to the very best apostles, though I am nothing.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Truly the signs of an apostle were worked among you in all perseverance, in signs and wonders and mighty works.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For what is there in which you were made inferior to the rest of the assemblies, unless it is that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong!
LABEL:14
VERSE:Behold, this is the third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you; for I seek not your possessions, but you. For the children ought not to save up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
LABEL:15
VERSE:I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved the less?
LABEL:16
VERSE:Even so, I myself didn’t burden you. But you might say that being crafty, I caught you with deception.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Did I take advantage of you by anyone of those whom I have sent to you?
LABEL:18
VERSE:I exhorted Titus, and I sent the brother with him. Did Titus take any advantage of you? Didn’t we walk in the same spirit? Didn’t we walk in the same steps?
LABEL:19
VERSE:Again, do you think that we are excusing ourselves to you? In the sight of God we speak in Christ. But all things, beloved, are for your edifying.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For I am afraid that perhaps when I come, I might find you not the way I want to, and that I might be found by you as you don’t desire, that perhaps there would be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, factions, slander, whisperings, proud thoughts, or riots,
LABEL:21
VERSE:that again when I come my God would humble me before you, and I would mourn for many of those who have sinned before now, and not repented of the uncleanness, sexual immorality, and lustfulness which they committed.