TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:2CO
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:2 Corinthians 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:But I determined this for myself, that I would not come to you again in sorrow.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For if I make you grieve, then who will make me glad but he who is made to grieve by me?
LABEL:3
VERSE:And I wrote this very thing to you, so that when I came, I wouldn’t have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all that my joy would be shared by all of you.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you with many tears, not that you should be made to grieve, but that you might know the love that I have so abundantly for you.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But if any has caused sorrow, he has caused sorrow not to me, but in part (that I not press too heavily) to you all.
LABEL:6
VERSE:This punishment which was inflicted by the many is sufficient for such a one;
LABEL:7
VERSE:so that, on the contrary, you should rather forgive him and comfort him, lest by any means such a one should be swallowed up with his excessive sorrow.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Therefore I beg you to confirm your love toward him.
LABEL:9
VERSE:For to this end I also wrote, that I might know the proof of you, whether you are obedient in all things.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Now I also forgive whomever you forgive anything. For if indeed I have forgiven anything, I have forgiven that one for your sakes in the presence of Christ,
LABEL:11
VERSE:that no advantage may be gained over us by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his schemes.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Now when I came to Troas for the Good News of Christ, and when a door was opened to me in the Lord,
LABEL:13
VERSE:I had no relief for my spirit, because I didn’t find Titus my brother, but taking my leave of them, I went out into Macedonia.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Now thanks be to God who always leads us in triumph in Christ, and reveals through us the sweet aroma of his knowledge in every place.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For we are a sweet aroma of Christ to God in those who are saved and in those who perish:
LABEL:16
VERSE:to the one a stench from death to death, to the other a sweet aroma from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things?
LABEL:17
VERSE:For we are not as so many, peddling the word of God. But as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, we speak in Christ.