TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:REV
CHAPTER:5
TITLE:Revelation 5
LABEL:1
VERSE:And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the back, close sealed with seven seals.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a great voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?
LABEL:3
VERSE:And no one in the heaven, or on the earth, or under the earth, was able to open the book, or to look thereon.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open the book, or to look thereon:
LABEL:5
VERSE:and one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not; behold, the Lion that is of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath overcome to open the book and the seven seals thereof.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, having seven horns, and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And he came, and he taketh it out of the right hand of him that sat on the throne.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having each one a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And they sing a new song, saying,
VERSE:Worthy art thou to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and didst purchase unto God with thy blood men of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation,
LABEL:10
VERSE:and madest them to be unto our God a kingdom and priests; and they reign upon the earth.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And I saw, and I heard a voice of many angels round about the throne and the living creatures and the elders; and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands;
LABEL:12
VERSE:saying with a great voice,
VERSE:Worthy is the Lamb that hath been slain to receive the power, and riches, and wisdom, and might, and honor, and glory, and blessing.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And every created thing which is in the heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and on the sea, and all things that are in them, heard I saying,
VERSE:Unto him that sitteth on the throne, and unto the Lamb, be the blessing, and the honor, and the glory, and the dominion, for ever and ever.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped.