TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:REV
CHAPTER:8
TITLE:Revelation 8
LABEL:1
VERSE:And when he opened the seventh seal, there followed a silence in heaven about the space of half an hour.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And I saw the seven angels that stand before God; and there were given unto them seven trumpets.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And another angel came and stood over the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should add it unto the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, went up before God out of the angel’s hand.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And the angel taketh the censer; and he filled it with the fire of the altar, and cast it upon the earth: and there followed thunders, and voices, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And the seven angels that had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the first sounded, and there followed hail and fire, mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of the earth was burnt up, and the third part of the trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood;
LABEL:9
VERSE:and there died the third part of the creatures which were in the sea, even they that had life; and the third part of the ships was destroyed.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And the third angel sounded, and there fell from heaven a great star, burning as a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of the waters;
LABEL:11
VERSE:and the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; that the third part of them should be darkened, and the day should not shine for the third part of it, and the night in like manner.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And I saw, and I heard an eagle, flying in mid heaven, saying with a great voice, Woe, woe, woe, for them that dwell on the earth, by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, who are yet to sound.