TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EXO
CHAPTER:20
TITLE:Exodus 20
LABEL:1
VERSE:And God spake all these words, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:I am Jehovah thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Thou shalt not make unto thee a graven image, nor any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
LABEL:5
VERSE:thou shalt not bow down thyself unto them, nor serve them; for I Jehovah thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the third and upon the fourth generation of them that hate me,
LABEL:6
VERSE:and showing lovingkindness unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Thou shalt not take the name of Jehovah thy God in vain; for Jehovah will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work;
LABEL:10
VERSE:but the seventh day is a sabbath unto Jehovah thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates:
LABEL:11
VERSE:for in six days Jehovah made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore Jehovah blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long in the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Thou shalt not kill.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Thou shalt not commit adultery.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Thou shalt not steal.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor’s.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And all the people perceived the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the voice of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the people saw it, they trembled, and stood afar off.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear; but let not God speak with us, lest we die.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to prove you, and that his fear may be before you, that ye sin not.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And Jehovah said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, Ye yourselves have seen that I have talked with you from heaven.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Ye shall not make other gods with me; gods of silver, or gods of gold, ye shall not make unto you.
LABEL:24
VERSE:An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt-offerings, and thy peace-offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen: in every place where I record my name I will come unto thee and I will bless thee.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And if thou make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stones; for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy nakedness be not uncovered thereon.