TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EXO
CHAPTER:21
TITLE:Exodus 21
LABEL:1
VERSE:Now these are the ordinances which thou shalt set before them.
LABEL:2
VERSE:If thou buy a Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing.
LABEL:3
VERSE:If he come in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he be married, then his wife shall go out with him.
LABEL:4
VERSE:If his master give him a wife and she bear him sons or daughters; the wife and her children shall be her master’s, and he shall go out by himself.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free:
LABEL:6
VERSE:then his master shall bring him unto God, and shall bring him to the door, or unto the door-post; and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl; and he shall serve him for ever.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And if a man sell his daughter to be a maid-servant, she shall not go out as the men-servants do.
LABEL:8
VERSE:If she please not her master, who hath espoused her to himself, then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a foreign people he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And if he espouse her unto his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters.
LABEL:10
VERSE:If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall he not diminish.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And if he do not these three things unto her, then shall she go out for nothing, without money.
LABEL:12
VERSE:He that smiteth a man, so that he dieth, shall surely be put to death.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand; then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbor, to slay him with guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely put to death.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And he that curseth his father or his mother, shall surely be put to death.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And if men contend, and one smite the other with a stone, or with his fist, and he die not, but keep his bed;
LABEL:19
VERSE:if he rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he die under his hand; he shall surely be punished.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be punished: for he is his money.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And if men strive together, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit depart, and yet no harm follow; he shall be surely fined, according as the woman’s husband shall lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine.
LABEL:23
VERSE:But if any harm follow, then thou shalt give life for life,
LABEL:24
VERSE:eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
LABEL:25
VERSE:burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his maid, and destroy it; he shall let him go free for his eye’s sake.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And if he smite out his man-servant’s tooth, or his maid-servant’s tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth’s sake.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And if an ox gore a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be surely stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be quit.
LABEL:29
VERSE:But if the ox was wont to gore in time past, and it hath been testified to its owner, and he hath not kept it in, but it hath killed a man or a woman; the ox shall be stoned, and its owner also shall be put to death.
LABEL:30
VERSE:If there be laid on him a ransom, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatsoever is laid upon him.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Whether it have gored a son, or have gored a daughter, according to this judgment shall it be done unto him.
LABEL:32
VERSE:If the ox gore a man-servant or a maid-servant, there shall be given unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit and not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein,
LABEL:34
VERSE:the owner of the pit shall make it good; he shall give money unto the owner thereof, and the dead beast shall be his.
LABEL:35
VERSE:And if one man’s ox hurt another’s, so that it dieth, then they shall sell the live ox, and divide the price of it; and the dead also they shall divide.
LABEL:36
VERSE:Or if it be known that the ox was wont to gore in time past, and its owner hath not kept it in; he shall surely pay ox for ox, and the dead beast shall be his own.