TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EXO
CHAPTER:25
TITLE:Exodus 25
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Speak unto the children of Israel, that they take for me an offering: of every man whose heart maketh him willing ye shall take my offering.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And this is the offering which ye shall take of them: gold, and silver, and brass,
LABEL:4
VERSE:and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’ hair,
LABEL:5
VERSE:and rams’ skins dyed red, and sealskins, and acacia wood,
LABEL:6
VERSE:oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense,
LABEL:7
VERSE:onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them.
LABEL:9
VERSE:According to all that I show thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the furniture thereof, even so shall ye make it.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And they shall make an ark of acacia wood: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four feet thereof; and two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And thou shalt make staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And thou shalt put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, wherewith to bear the ark.
LABEL:15
VERSE:The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And thou shalt make a mercy-seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And thou shalt make two cherubim of gold; of beaten work shalt thou make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And make one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end: of one piece with the mercy-seat shall ye make the cherubim on the two ends thereof.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And the cherubim shall spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, with their faces one to another; toward the mercy-seat shall the faces of the cherubim be.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And thou shalt put the mercy-seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And thou shalt make a table of acacia wood: two cubits shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And thou shalt make unto it a border of a handbreadth round about; and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round about.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Close by the border shall the rings be, for places for the staves to bear the table.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And thou shalt make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and the spoons thereof, and the flagons thereof, and the bowls thereof, wherewith to pour out: of pure gold shalt thou make them.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And thou shalt set upon the table showbread before me alway.
LABEL:31
VERSE:And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made, even its base, and its shaft; its cups, its knops, and its flowers, shall be of one piece with it:
LABEL:32
VERSE:and there shall be six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof:
LABEL:33
VERSE:three cups made like almond-blossoms in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three cups made like almond-blossoms in the other branch, a knop and a flower: so for the six branches going out of the candlestick:
LABEL:34
VERSE:and in the candlestick four cups made like almond-blossoms, the knops thereof, and the flowers thereof;
LABEL:35
VERSE:and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the candlestick.
LABEL:36
VERSE:Their knops and their branches shall be of one piece with it; the whole of it one beaten work of pure gold.
LABEL:37
VERSE:And thou shalt make the lamps thereof, seven: and they shall light the lamps thereof, to give light over against it.
LABEL:38
VERSE:And the snuffers thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of pure gold.
LABEL:39
VERSE:Of a talent of pure gold shall it be made, with all these vessels.
LABEL:40
VERSE:And see that thou make them after their pattern, which hath been showed thee in the mount.