TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:EXO
CHAPTER:27
TITLE:Exodus 27
LABEL:1
VERSE:And thou shalt make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof shall be three cubits.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof; the horns thereof shall be of one piece with it: and thou shalt overlay it with brass.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And thou shalt make its pots to take away its ashes, and its shovels, and its basins, and its flesh-hooks, and its firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And thou shalt make for it a grating of network of brass: and upon the net shalt thou make four brazen rings in the four corners thereof.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And thou shalt put it under the ledge round the altar beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the altar.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the staves thereof shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, in bearing it.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Hollow with planks shalt thou make it: as it hath been showed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen a hundred cubits long for one side:
LABEL:10
VERSE:and the pillars thereof shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings a hundred cubits long, and the pillars thereof twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
LABEL:14
VERSE:The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And for the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And for the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four.
LABEL:17
VERSE:All the pillars of the court round about shall be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of brass.
LABEL:18
VERSE:The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass.
LABEL:19
VERSE:All the instruments of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually.
LABEL:21
VERSE:In the tent of meeting, without the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah: it shall be a statute for ever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.