TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:1CH
CHAPTER:18
TITLE:1 Chronicles 18
LABEL:1
VERSE:After this, David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines.
LABEL:2
VERSE:He defeated Moab; and the Moabites became servants to David and brought tribute.
LABEL:3
VERSE:David defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah, toward Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates.
LABEL:4
VERSE:David took from him one thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved of them enough for one hundred chariots.
LABEL:5
VERSE:When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David and brought tribute. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went.
LABEL:7
VERSE:David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
LABEL:8
VERSE:From Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took very much bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze sea, the pillars, and the vessels of bronze.
LABEL:9
VERSE:When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah,
LABEL:10
VERSE:he sent Hadoram his son to King David to greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and struck him (for Hadadezer had wars with Tou); and he had with him all kinds of vessels of gold and silver and bronze.
LABEL:11
VERSE:King David also dedicated these to Yahweh, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations: from Edom, from Moab, from the children of Ammon, from the Philistines, and from Amalek.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah struck eighteen thousand of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt.
LABEL:13
VERSE:He put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to David. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went.
LABEL:14
VERSE:David reigned over all Israel; and he executed justice and righteousness for all his people.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
LABEL:16
VERSE:Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were priests; Shavsha was scribe;
LABEL:17
VERSE:and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief officials serving the king.