TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:JHN
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:John 12
LABEL:1
VERSE:Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead.
LABEL:2
VERSE:There they made him a supper; and Martha served: but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him,
LABEL:5
VERSE:Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor?
LABEL:6
VERSE:This he said, not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put therein.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying hath she kept this.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there: and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death;
LABEL:11
VERSE:because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus.
LABEL:12
VERSE:On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
LABEL:13
VERSE:took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written,
LABEL:15
VERSE:Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt.
LABEL:16
VERSE:These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him.
LABEL:17
VERSE:The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from the dead, bare record.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle.
LABEL:19
VERSE:The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast:
LABEL:21
VERSE:the same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.
LABEL:25
VERSE:He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal.
LABEL:26
VERSE:If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will my Father honour.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.
LABEL:29
VERSE:The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it thundered: others said, An angel spake to him.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out.
LABEL:32
VERSE:And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me.
LABEL:33
VERSE:This he said, signifying what death he should die.
LABEL:34
VERSE:The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man?
LABEL:35
VERSE:Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you: for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth.
LABEL:36
VERSE:While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and did hide himself from them.
LABEL:37
VERSE:But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him:
LABEL:38
VERSE:That the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake,
VERSE:Lord, who hath believed our report?
VERSE:And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?
LABEL:39
VERSE:Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said again,
LABEL:40
VERSE:He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart;
VERSE:That they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart,
VERSE:And be converted,
VERSE:And I should heal them.
LABEL:41
VERSE:These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him.
LABEL:42
VERSE:Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue:
LABEL:43
VERSE:for they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God.
LABEL:44
VERSE:Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me.
LABEL:45
VERSE:And he that seeth me seeth him that sent me.
LABEL:46
VERSE:I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness.
LABEL:47
VERSE:And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world.
LABEL:48
VERSE:He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day.
LABEL:49
VERSE:For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father which sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.
LABEL:50
VERSE:And I know that his commandment is life everlasting: whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak.