TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:JHN
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:John 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:When therefore the Lord knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John,
LABEL:2
VERSE:(though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples,)
LABEL:3
VERSE:he left Judæa, and departed again into Galilee.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And he must needs go through Samaria.
SECTION:The Woman of Samaria
LABEL:5
VERSE:Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well: and it was about the sixth hour.
LABEL:7
VERSE:There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink.
LABEL:8
VERSE:(For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.)
LABEL:9
VERSE:Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
LABEL:11
VERSE:The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water?
LABEL:12
VERSE:Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?
LABEL:13
VERSE:Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again:
LABEL:14
VERSE:but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.
LABEL:15
VERSE:The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither.
LABEL:17
VERSE:The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband:
LABEL:18
VERSE:for thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in that saidst thou truly.
LABEL:19
VERSE:The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we worship: for salvation is of the Jews.
LABEL:23
VERSE:But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him.
LABEL:24
VERSE:God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.
LABEL:25
VERSE:The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked with the woman: yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with her?
LABEL:28
VERSE:The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men,
LABEL:29
VERSE:Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ?
LABEL:30
VERSE:Then they went out of the city, and came unto him.
LABEL:31
VERSE:In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat.
LABEL:32
VERSE:But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of.
LABEL:33
VERSE:Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him ought to eat?
LABEL:34
VERSE:Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.
LABEL:35
VERSE:Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest.
LABEL:36
VERSE:And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.
LABEL:37
VERSE:And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth.
LABEL:38
VERSE:I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours.
LABEL:39
VERSE:And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that ever I did.
LABEL:40
VERSE:So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them: and he abode there two days.
LABEL:41
VERSE:And many more believed because of his own word;
LABEL:42
VERSE:and said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world.
LABEL:43
VERSE:Now after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee.
LABEL:44
VERSE:For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own country.
LABEL:45
VERSE:Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilæans received him, having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast.
LABEL:46
VERSE:So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum.
LABEL:47
VERSE:When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judæa into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son: for he was at the point of death.
LABEL:48
VERSE:Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe.
LABEL:49
VERSE:The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.
LABEL:50
VERSE:Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way.
LABEL:51
VERSE:And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told him, saying, Thy son liveth.
LABEL:52
VERSE:Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
LABEL:53
VERSE:So the father knew that it was at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house.
LABEL:54
VERSE:This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was come out of Judæa into Galilee.