TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:MIC
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Micah 2
SECTION:To Men in Power
LABEL:1
VERSE:Woe to them that devise iniquity, and work evil upon their beds! when the morning is light, they practise it, because it is in the power of their hand.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And they covet fields, and take them by violence; and houses, and take them away: so they oppress a man and his house, even a man and his heritage.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, against this family do I devise an evil, from which ye shall not remove your necks; neither shall ye go haughtily: for this time is evil.
LABEL:4
VERSE:In that day shall one take up a parable against you, and lament with a doleful lamentation, and say, We be utterly spoiled: he hath changed the portion of my people: how hath he removed it from me! turning away he hath divided our fields.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Therefore thou shalt have none that shall cast a cord by lot in the congregation of the LORD.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Prophesy ye not, say they to them that prophesy: they shall not prophesy to them, that they shall not take shame.
LABEL:7
VERSE:O thou that art named the house of Jacob, is the spirit of the LORD straitened? are these his doings? do not my words do good to him that walketh uprightly?
LABEL:8
VERSE:Even of late my people is risen up as an enemy: ye pull off the robe with the garment from them that pass by securely as men averse from war.
LABEL:9
VERSE:The women of my people have ye cast out from their pleasant houses; from their children have ye taken away my glory for ever.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Arise ye, and depart; for this is not your rest: because it is polluted, it shall destroy you, even with a sore destruction.
LABEL:11
VERSE:If a man walking in the spirit and falsehood do lie, saying, I will prophesy unto thee of wine and of strong drink; he shall even be the prophet of this people.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I will surely assemble, O Jacob, all of thee; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the sheep of Bozrah, as the flock in the midst of their fold: they shall make great noise by reason of the multitude of men.
LABEL:13
VERSE:The breaker is come up before them: they have broken up, and have passed through the gate, and are gone out by it: and their king shall pass before them, and the LORD on the head of them.