TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:MIC
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Micah 6
LABEL:1
VERSE:Hear ye now what the LORD saith; Arise, contend thou before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Hear ye, O mountains, the LORD's controversy, and ye strong foundations of the earth: for the LORD hath a controversy with his people, and he will plead with Israel.
LABEL:3
VERSE:O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I wearied thee? testify against me.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of servants; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
LABEL:5
VERSE:O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab consulted, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim unto Gilgal; that ye may know the righteousness of the LORD.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Wherewith shall I come before the LORD, and bow myself before the high God? shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old?
LABEL:7
VERSE:Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?
LABEL:8
VERSE:He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?
SECTION:His Call to the City
LABEL:9
VERSE:The LORD's voice crieth unto the city, and the man of wisdom shall see thy name: hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Are there yet the treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure that is abominable?
LABEL:11
VERSE:Shall I count them pure with the wicked balances, and with the bag of deceitful weights?
LABEL:12
VERSE:For the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Therefore also will I make thee sick in smiting thee, in making thee desolate because of thy sins.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; and thy casting down shall be in the midst of thee; and thou shalt take hold, but shalt not deliver; and that which thou deliverest will I give up to the sword.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Thou shalt sow, but thou shalt not reap; thou shalt tread the olives, but thou shalt not anoint thee with oil; and sweet wine, but shalt not drink wine.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels; that I should make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof an hissing: therefore ye shall bear the reproach of my people.