TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:1 Corinthians 12
LABEL:1
VERSE:Now concerning spiritual things, brothers, I don’t want you to be ignorant.
LABEL:2
VERSE:You know that when you were heathen, you were led away to those mute idols, however you might be led.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Therefore I make known to you that no man speaking by God’s Spirit says, “Jesus is accursed.” No one can say, “Jesus is Lord,” but by the Holy Spirit.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Now there are various kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit.
LABEL:5
VERSE:There are various kinds of service, and the same Lord.
LABEL:6
VERSE:There are various kinds of workings, but the same God who works all things in all.
LABEL:7
VERSE:But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the profit of all.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For to one is given through the Spirit the word of wisdom, and to another the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
LABEL:9
VERSE:to another faith by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healings by the same Spirit,
LABEL:10
VERSE:and to another workings of miracles, and to another prophecy, and to another discerning of spirits, to another different kinds of languages, and to another the interpretation of languages.
LABEL:11
VERSE:But the one and the same Spirit produces all of these, distributing to each one separately as he desires.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all given to drink into one Spirit.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For the body is not one member, but many.
LABEL:15
VERSE:If the foot would say, “Because I’m not the hand, I’m not part of the body,” it is not therefore not part of the body.
LABEL:16
VERSE:If the ear would say, “Because I’m not the eye, I’m not part of the body,” it’s not therefore not part of the body.
LABEL:17
VERSE:If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were hearing, where would the smelling be?
LABEL:18
VERSE:But now God has set the members, each one of them, in the body, just as he desired.
LABEL:19
VERSE:If they were all one member, where would the body be?
LABEL:20
VERSE:But now they are many members, but one body.
LABEL:21
VERSE:The eye can’t tell the hand, “I have no need for you,” or again the head to the feet, “I have no need for you.”
LABEL:22
VERSE:No, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Those parts of the body which we think to be less honorable, on those we bestow more abundant honor; and our unpresentable parts have more abundant modesty,
LABEL:24
VERSE:while our presentable parts have no such need. But God composed the body together, giving more abundant honor to the inferior part,
LABEL:25
VERSE:that there should be no division in the body, but that the members should have the same care for one another.
LABEL:26
VERSE:When one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. When one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Now you are the body of Christ, and members individually.
LABEL:28
VERSE:God has set some in the assembly: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracle workers, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, and various kinds of languages.
LABEL:29
VERSE:Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all miracle workers?
LABEL:30
VERSE:Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with various languages? Do all interpret?
LABEL:31
VERSE:But earnestly desire the best gifts. Moreover, I show a most excellent way to you.