TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:NUM
CHAPTER:11
TITLE:Numbers 11
LABEL:1
VERSE:And the people were as murmurers, speaking evil in the ears of Jehovah: and when Jehovah heard it, his anger was kindled; and the fire of Jehovah burnt among them, and devoured in the uttermost part of the camp.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And the people cried unto Moses; and Moses prayed unto Jehovah, and the fire abated.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And the name of that place was called Taberah, because the fire of Jehovah burnt among them.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And the mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat?
LABEL:5
VERSE:We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt for nought; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic:
LABEL:6
VERSE:but now our soul is dried away; there is nothing at all save this manna to look upon.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the manna was like coriander seed, and the appearance thereof as the appearance of bdellium.
LABEL:8
VERSE:The people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, every man at the door of his tent: and the anger of Jehovah was kindled greatly; and Moses was displeased.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And Moses said unto Jehovah, Wherefore hast thou dealt ill with thy servant? and wherefore have I not found favor in thy sight, that thou layest the burden of all this people upon me?
LABEL:12
VERSE:Have I conceived all this people? have I brought them forth, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing-father carrieth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers?
LABEL:13
VERSE:Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And Jehovah said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them unto the tent of meeting, that they may stand there with thee.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will take of the Spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself alone.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against to-morrow, and ye shall eat flesh; for ye have wept in the ears of Jehovah, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us in Egypt: therefore Jehovah will give you flesh, and ye shall eat.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days,
LABEL:20
VERSE:but a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome unto you; because that ye have rejected Jehovah who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt?
LABEL:21
VERSE:And Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen; and thou hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Shall flocks and herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them?
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Jehovah said unto Moses, Is Jehovah’s hand waxed short? now shalt thou see whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And Moses went out, and told the people the words of Jehovah: and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the Tent.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And Jehovah came down in the cloud, and spake unto him, and took of the Spirit that was upon him, and put it upon the seventy elders: and it came to pass, that, when the Spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, but they did so no more.
LABEL:26
VERSE:But there remained two men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the Spirit rested upon them; and they were of them that were written, but had not gone out unto the Tent; and they prophesied in the camp.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And Joshua the son of Nun, the minister of Moses, one of his chosen men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And Moses said unto him, Art thou jealous for my sake? would that all Jehovah’s people were prophets, that Jehovah would put his Spirit upon them!
LABEL:30
VERSE:And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
LABEL:31
VERSE:And there went forth a wind from Jehovah, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day’s journey on this side, and a day’s journey on the other side, round about the camp, and about two cubits above the face of the earth.
LABEL:32
VERSE:And the people rose up all that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp.
LABEL:33
VERSE:While the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the anger of Jehovah was kindled against the people, and Jehovah smote the people with a very great plague.
LABEL:34
VERSE:And the name of that place was called Kibroth-hattaavah, because there they buried the people that lusted.
LABEL:35
VERSE:From Kibroth-hattaavah the people journeyed unto Hazeroth; and they abode at Hazeroth.