TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:NUM
CHAPTER:28
TITLE:Numbers 28
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My oblation, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto Jehovah: he-lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt-offering.
LABEL:4
VERSE:The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even;
LABEL:5
VERSE:and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
LABEL:6
VERSE:It is a continual burnt-offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the drink-offering thereof shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou pour out a drink-offering of strong drink unto Jehovah.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meal-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering thereof, thou shalt offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And on the sabbath day two he-lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, and the drink-offering thereof:
LABEL:10
VERSE:this is the burnt-offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish;
LABEL:12
VERSE:and three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for each bullock; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram;
LABEL:13
VERSE:and a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal-offering unto every lamb; for a burnt-offering of a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And their drink-offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt-offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And one he-goat for a sin-offering unto Jehovah; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Jehovah’s passover.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And on the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
LABEL:18
VERSE:In the first day shall be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work;
LABEL:19
VERSE:but ye shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven he-lambs a year old; they shall be unto you without blemish;
LABEL:20
VERSE:and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil: three tenth parts shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth parts for the ram;
LABEL:21
VERSE:a tenth part shalt thou offer for every lamb of the seven lambs;
LABEL:22
VERSE:and one he-goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Ye shall offer these besides the burnt-offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt-offering.
LABEL:24
VERSE:After this manner ye shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Also in the day of the first-fruits, when ye offer a new meal-offering unto Jehovah in your feast of weeks, ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work;
LABEL:27
VERSE:but ye shall offer a burnt-offering for a sweet savor unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old;
LABEL:28
VERSE:and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram,
LABEL:29
VERSE:a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
LABEL:30
VERSE:one he-goat, to make atonement for you.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering thereof, ye shall offer them (they shall be unto you without blemish), and their drink-offerings.