TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:2CH
CHAPTER:17
TITLE:2 Chronicles 17
LABEL:1
VERSE:Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place, and strengthened himself against Israel.
LABEL:2
VERSE:He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Yahweh was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father David, and didn’t seek the Baals,
LABEL:4
VERSE:but sought the God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not in the ways of Israel.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Therefore Yahweh established the kingdom in his hand. All Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he had riches and honor in abundance.
LABEL:6
VERSE:His heart was lifted up in the ways of Yahweh. Furthermore, he took away the high places and the Asherah poles out of Judah.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Also in the third year of his reign he sent his princes, even Ben Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah;
LABEL:8
VERSE:and with them Levites, even Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests.
LABEL:9
VERSE:They taught in Judah, having the book of Yahweh’s law with them. They went about throughout all the cities of Judah and taught among the people.
LABEL:10
VERSE:The fear of Yahweh fell on all the kingdoms of the lands that were around Judah, so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver for tribute. The Arabians also brought him flocks: seven thousand seven hundred rams and seven thousand seven hundred male goats.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Jehoshaphat grew great exceedingly; and he built fortresses and store cities in Judah.
LABEL:13
VERSE:He had many works in the cities of Judah; and men of war, mighty men of valor, in Jerusalem.
LABEL:14
VERSE:This was the numbering of them according to their fathers’ houses: From Judah, the captains of thousands: Adnah the captain, and with him three hundred thousand mighty men of valor;
LABEL:15
VERSE:and next to him Jehohanan the captain, and with him two hundred eighty thousand;
LABEL:16
VERSE:and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to Yahweh, and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valor.
LABEL:17
VERSE:From Benjamin: Eliada, a mighty man of valor, and with him two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield;
LABEL:18
VERSE:and next to him Jehozabad, and with him one hundred eighty thousand ready and prepared for war.
LABEL:19
VERSE:These were those who waited on the king, in addition to those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.