TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:JAS
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:James 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are in the Dispersion: Greetings.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Count it all joy, my brothers, when you fall into various temptations,
LABEL:3
VERSE:knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Let endurance have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach, and it will be given to him.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But let him ask in faith, without any doubting, for he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed.
LABEL:7
VERSE:For that man shouldn’t think that he will receive anything from the Lord.
LABEL:8
VERSE:He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Let the brother in humble circumstances glory in his high position;
LABEL:10
VERSE:and the rich, in that he is made humble, because like the flower in the grass, he will pass away.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For the sun arises with the scorching wind and withers the grass; and the flower in it falls, and the beauty of its appearance perishes. So the rich man will also fade away in his pursuits.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Blessed is a person who endures temptation, for when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord promised to those who love him.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Let no man say when he is tempted, “I am tempted by God,” for God can’t be tempted by evil, and he himself tempts no one.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own lust and enticed.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Then the lust, when it has conceived, bears sin. The sin, when it is full grown, produces death.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Don’t be deceived, my beloved brothers.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom can be no variation nor turning shadow.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Of his own will he gave birth to us by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures.
LABEL:19
VERSE:So, then, my beloved brothers, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger;
LABEL:20
VERSE:for the anger of man doesn’t produce the righteousness of God.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Therefore, putting away all filthiness and overflowing of wickedness, receive with humility the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But be doers of the word, and not only hearers, deluding your own selves.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man looking at his natural face in a mirror;
LABEL:24
VERSE:for he sees himself, and goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was.
LABEL:25
VERSE:But he who looks into the perfect law of freedom and continues, not being a hearer who forgets but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed in what he does.
LABEL:26
VERSE:If anyone among you thinks himself to be religious while he doesn’t bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart, this man’s religion is worthless.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Pure religion and undefiled before our God and Father is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained by the world.