TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JER
CHAPTER:10
TITLE:Jeremiah 10
LABEL:1
VERSE:Hear ye the word which Jehovah speaketh unto you, O house of Israel:
LABEL:2
VERSE:thus saith Jehovah, Learn not the way of the nations, and be not dismayed at the signs of heaven; for the nations are dismayed at them.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For the customs of the peoples are vanity; for one cutteth a tree out of the forest, the work of the hands of the workman with the axe.
LABEL:4
VERSE:They deck it with silver and with gold; they fasten it with nails and with hammers, that it move not.
LABEL:5
VERSE:They are like a palm-tree, of turned work, and speak not: they must needs be borne, because they cannot go. Be not afraid of them; for they cannot do evil, neither is it in them to do good.
LABEL:6
VERSE:There is none like unto thee, O Jehovah; thou art great, and thy name is great in might.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Who should not fear thee, O King of the nations? for to thee doth it appertain; forasmuch as among all the wise men of the nations, and in all their royal estate, there is none like unto thee.
LABEL:8
VERSE:But they are together brutish and foolish: the instruction of idols! it is but a stock.
LABEL:9
VERSE:There is silver beaten into plates, which is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz, the work of the artificer and of the hands of the goldsmith; blue and purple for their clothing; they are all the work of skilful men.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But Jehovah is the true God; he is the living God, and an everlasting King: at his wrath the earth trembleth, and the nations are not able to abide his indignation.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Thus shall ye say unto them, The gods that have not made the heavens and the earth, these shall perish from the earth, and from under the heavens.
LABEL:12
VERSE:He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding hath he stretched out the heavens.
LABEL:13
VERSE:When he uttereth his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he causeth the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain, and bringeth forth the wind out of his treasuries.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Every man is become brutish and is without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his graven image; for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them.
LABEL:15
VERSE:They are vanity, a work of delusion: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.
LABEL:16
VERSE:The portion of Jacob is not like these; for he is the former of all things; and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance: Jehovah of hosts is his name.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Gather up thy wares out of the land, O thou that abidest in the siege.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For thus saith Jehovah, Behold, I will sling out the inhabitants of the land at this time, and will distress them, that they may feel it.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Woe is me because of my hurt! my wound is grievous: but I said, Truly this is my grief, and I must bear it.
LABEL:20
VERSE:My tent is destroyed, and all my cords are broken: my children are gone forth from me, and they are not: there is none to spread my tent any more, and to set up my curtains.
LABEL:21
VERSE:For the shepherds are become brutish, and have not inquired of Jehovah: therefore they have not prospered, and all their flocks are scattered.
LABEL:22
VERSE:The voice of tidings, behold, it cometh, and a great commotion out of the north country, to make the cities of Judah a desolation, a dwelling-place of jackals.
LABEL:23
VERSE:O Jehovah, I know that the way of man is not in himself; it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps.
LABEL:24
VERSE:O Jehovah, correct me, but in measure; not in thine anger, lest thou bring me to nothing.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Pour out thy wrath upon the nations that know thee not, and upon the families that call not on thy name; for they have devoured Jacob, yea, they have devoured him and consumed him, and have laid waste his habitation.