TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JER
CHAPTER:14
TITLE:Jeremiah 14
LABEL:1
VERSE:The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish, they sit in black upon the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And their nobles send their little ones to the waters: they come to the cisterns, and find no water; they return with their vessels empty; they are put to shame and confounded, and cover their heads.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Because of the ground which is cracked, for that no rain hath been in the land, the plowmen are put to shame, they cover their heads.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Yea, the hind also in the field calveth, and forsaketh her young, because there is no grass.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And the wild asses stand on the bare heights, they pant for air like jackals; their eyes fail, because there is no herbage.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Though our iniquities testify against us, work thou for thy name’s sake, O Jehovah; for our backslidings are many; we have sinned against thee.
LABEL:8
VERSE:O thou hope of Israel, the Saviour thereof in the time of trouble, why shouldest thou be as a sojourner in the land, and as a wayfaring man that turneth aside to tarry for a night?
LABEL:9
VERSE:Why shouldest thou be as a man affrighted, as a mighty man that cannot save? Yet thou, O Jehovah, art in the midst of us, and we are called by thy name; leave us not.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah unto this people, Even so have they loved to wander; they have not refrained their feet: therefore Jehovah doth not accept them; now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And Jehovah said unto me, Pray not for this people for their good.
LABEL:12
VERSE:When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer burnt-offering and meal-offering, I will not accept them; but I will consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Then said I, Ah, Lord Jehovah! behold, the prophets say unto them, Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have famine; but I will give you assured peace in this place.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Then Jehovah said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name; I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither spake I unto them: they prophesy unto you a lying vision, and divination, and a thing of nought, and the deceit of their own heart.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Therefore thus saith Jehovah concerning the prophets that prophesy in my name, and I sent them not, yet they say, Sword and famine shall not be in this land: By sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword; and they shall have none to bury them—them, their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness upon them.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And thou shalt say this word unto them, Let mine eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease; for the virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very grievous wound.
LABEL:18
VERSE:If I go forth into the field, then, behold, the slain with the sword! and if I enter into the city, then, behold, they that are sick with famine! for both the prophet and the priest go about in the land, and have no knowledge.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thy soul loathed Zion? why hast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? We looked for peace, but no good came; and for a time of healing, and, behold, dismay!
LABEL:20
VERSE:We acknowledge, O Jehovah, our wickedness, and the iniquity of our fathers; for we have sinned against thee.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Do not abhor us, for thy name’s sake; do not disgrace the throne of thy glory: remember, break not thy covenant with us.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Are there any among the vanities of the nations that can cause rain? or can the heavens give showers? art not thou he, O Jehovah our God? therefore we will wait for thee; for thou hast made all these things.