TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JER
CHAPTER:37
TITLE:Jeremiah 37
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned as king, instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah.
LABEL:2
VERSE:But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, did hearken unto the words of Jehovah, which he spake by the prophet Jeremiah.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, Pray now unto Jehovah our God for us.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people; for they had not put him into prison.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And Pharaoh’s army was come forth out of Egypt; and when the Chaldeans that were besieging Jerusalem heard tidings of them, they brake up from Jerusalem.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Then came the word of Jehovah unto the prophet Jeremiah, saying,
LABEL:7
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Thus shall ye say to the king of Judah, that sent you unto me to inquire of me: Behold, Pharaoh’s army, which is come forth to help you, shall return to Egypt into their own land.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And the Chaldeans shall come again, and fight against this city; and they shall take it, and burn it with fire.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah, Deceive not yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans shall surely depart from us; for they shall not depart.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For though ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans that fight against you, and there remained but wounded men among them, yet would they rise up every man in his tent, and burn this city with fire.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And it came to pass that, when the army of the Chaldeans was broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh’s army,
LABEL:12
VERSE:then Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin, to receive his portion there, in the midst of the people.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And when he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the ward was there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah; and he laid hold on Jeremiah the prophet, saying, Thou art falling away to the Chaldeans.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Then said Jeremiah, It is false; I am not falling away to the Chaldeans. But he hearkened not to him; so Irijah laid hold on Jeremiah, and brought him to the princes.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And the princes were wroth with Jeremiah, and smote him, and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe; for they had made that the prison.
LABEL:16
VERSE:When Jeremiah was come into the dungeon-house, and into the cells, and Jeremiah had remained there many days;
LABEL:17
VERSE:then Zedekiah the king sent, and fetched him: and the king asked him secretly in his house, and said, Is there any word from Jehovah? And Jeremiah said, There is. He said also, Thou shalt be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Moreover Jeremiah said unto king Zedekiah, Wherein have I sinned against thee, or against thy servants, or against this people, that ye have put me in prison?
LABEL:19
VERSE:Where now are your prophets that prophesied unto you, saying, The king of Babylon shall not come against you, nor against this land?
LABEL:20
VERSE:And now hear, I pray thee, O my lord the king: let my supplication, I pray thee, be presented before thee, that thou cause me not to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Then Zedekiah the king commanded, and they committed Jeremiah into the court of the guard; and they gave him daily a loaf of bread out of the bakers’ street, until all the bread in the city was spent. Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.