TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JER
CHAPTER:49
TITLE:Jeremiah 49
LABEL:1
VERSE:Of the children of Ammon. Thus saith Jehovah: Hath Israel no sons? hath he no heir? why then doth Malcam possess Gad, and his people dwell in the cities thereof?
LABEL:2
VERSE:Therefore, behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the children of Ammon; and it shall become a desolate heap, and her daughters shall be burned with fire: then shall Israel possess them that did possess him, saith Jehovah.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste; cry, ye daughters of Rabbah, gird you with sackcloth: lament, and run to and fro among the fences; for Malcam shall go into captivity, his priests and his princes together.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Wherefore gloriest thou in the valleys, thy flowing valley, O backsliding daughter? that trusted in her treasures, saying, Who shall come unto me?
LABEL:5
VERSE:Behold, I will bring a fear upon thee, saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, from all that are round about thee; and ye shall be driven out every man right forth, and there shall be none to gather together the fugitives.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But afterward I will bring back the captivity of the children of Ammon, saith Jehovah.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Of Edom. Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Is wisdom no more in Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? is their wisdom vanished?
LABEL:8
VERSE:Flee ye, turn back, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan; for I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time that I shall visit him.
LABEL:9
VERSE:If grape-gatherers came to thee, would they not leave some gleaning grapes? if thieves by night, would they not destroy till they had enough?
LABEL:10
VERSE:But I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself: his seed is destroyed, and his brethren, and his neighbors; and he is not.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; and let thy widows trust in me.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For thus saith Jehovah: Behold, they to whom it pertained not to drink of the cup shall assuredly drink; and art thou he that shall altogether go unpunished? thou shalt not go unpunished, but thou shalt surely drink.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For I have sworn by myself, saith Jehovah, that Bozrah shall become an astonishment, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all the cities thereof shall be perpetual wastes.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I have heard tidings from Jehovah, and an ambassador is sent among the nations, saying, Gather yourselves together, and come against her, and rise up to the battle.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For, behold, I have made thee small among the nations, and despised among men.
LABEL:16
VERSE:As for thy terribleness, the pride of thy heart hath deceived thee, O thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, that holdest the height of the hill: though thou shouldest make thy nest as high as the eagle, I will bring thee down from thence, saith Jehovah.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And Edom shall become an astonishment: every one that passeth by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all the plagues thereof.
LABEL:18
VERSE:As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities thereof, saith Jehovah, no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of man sojourn therein.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation: for I will suddenly make them run away from it; and whoso is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will appoint me a time? and who is the shepherd that will stand before me?
LABEL:20
VERSE:Therefore hear ye the counsel of Jehovah, that he hath taken against Edom; and his purposes, that he hath purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely they shall drag them away, even the little ones of the flock; surely he shall make their habitation desolate over them.
LABEL:21
VERSE:The earth trembleth at the noise of their fall; there is a cry, the noise whereof is heard in the Red Sea.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle, and spread out his wings against Bozrah: and the heart of the mighty men of Edom at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Of Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad; for they have heard evil tidings, they are melted away: there is sorrow on the sea; it cannot be quiet.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Damascus is waxed feeble, she turneth herself to flee, and trembling hath seized on her: anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her, as of a woman in travail.
LABEL:25
VERSE:How is the city of praise not forsaken, the city of my joy?
LABEL:26
VERSE:Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, saith Jehovah of hosts.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben-hadad.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Of Kedar, and of the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote.
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah: Arise ye, go up to Kedar, and destroy the children of the east.
LABEL:29
VERSE:Their tents and their flocks shall they take; they shall carry away for themselves their curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels; and they shall cry unto them, Terror on every side!
LABEL:30
VERSE:Flee ye, wander far off, dwell in the depths, O ye inhabitants of Hazor, saith Jehovah; for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath taken counsel against you, and hath conceived a purpose against you.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Arise, get you up unto a nation that is at ease, that dwelleth without care, saith Jehovah; that have neither gates nor bars, that dwell alone.
LABEL:32
VERSE:And their camels shall be a booty, and the multitude of their cattle a spoil: and I will scatter unto all winds them that have the corners of their hair cut off; and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, saith Jehovah.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And Hazor shall be a dwelling-place of jackals, a desolation for ever: no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of man sojourn therein.
LABEL:34
VERSE:The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying,
LABEL:35
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might.
LABEL:36
VERSE:And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of heaven, and will scatter them toward all those winds; and there shall be no nation whither the outcasts of Elam shall not come.
LABEL:37
VERSE:And I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies, and before them that seek their life; and I will bring evil upon them, even my fierce anger, saith Jehovah; and I will send the sword after them, till I have consumed them:
LABEL:38
VERSE:and I will set my throne in Elam, and will destroy from thence king and princes, saith Jehovah.
LABEL:39
VERSE:But it shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will bring back the captivity of Elam, saith Jehovah.