TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Isaiah 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the LORD hath spoken, I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me.
LABEL:3
VERSE:The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib: but Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the LORD, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away backward.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Why should ye be stricken any more? ye will revolt more and more: the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
LABEL:6
VERSE:From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in it; but wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores: they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire: your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Except the LORD of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Hear the word of the LORD, ye rulers of Sodom; give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah.
LABEL:11
VERSE:To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? saith the LORD: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he goats.
LABEL:12
VERSE:When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand, to tread my courts?
LABEL:13
VERSE:Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with; it is iniquity, even the solemn meeting.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth: they are a trouble unto me; I am weary to bear them.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you: yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands are full of blood.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil;
LABEL:17
VERSE:learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.
LABEL:19
VERSE:If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land:
LABEL:20
VERSE:but if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it.
LABEL:21
VERSE:How is the faithful city become an harlot! it was full of judgment; righteousness lodged in it; but now murderers.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Thy silver is become dross, thy wine mixed with water:
LABEL:23
VERSE:thy princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves: every one loveth gifts, and followeth after rewards: they judge not the fatherless, neither doth the cause of the widow come unto them.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Therefore saith the Lord, the LORD of hosts, the mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mine enemies:
LABEL:25
VERSE:and I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge away thy dross, and take away all thy tin:
LABEL:26
VERSE:and I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning: afterward thou shalt be called, The city of righteousness, the faithful city.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts with righteousness.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together, and they that forsake the LORD shall be consumed.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, and ye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen.
LABEL:30
VERSE:For ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden that hath no water.
LABEL:31
VERSE:And the strong shall be as tow, and the maker of it as a spark, and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them.