TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:13
TITLE:Isaiah 13
SECTION:Concerning the Nations
LABEL:1
VERSE:The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto them, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles.
LABEL:3
VERSE:I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my mighty ones for mine anger, even them that rejoice in my highness.
LABEL:4
VERSE:The noise of a multitude in the mountains, like as of a great people; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered together: the LORD of hosts mustereth the host of the battle.
LABEL:5
VERSE:They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, even the LORD, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Howl ye; for the day of the LORD  is at hand; it shall come as a destruction from the Almighty.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Therefore shall all hands be faint, and every man's heart shall melt:
LABEL:8
VERSE:and they shall be afraid: pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth: they shall be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as flames.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Behold, the day of the LORD cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked for their iniquity; and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease, and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove out of her place, in the wrath of the LORD of hosts, and in the day of his fierce anger.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man taketh up: they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee every one into his own land.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Every one that is found shall be thrust through; and every one that is joined unto them shall fall by the sword.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Their children also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes; their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall not regard silver; and as for gold, they shall not delight in it.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Their bows also shall dash the young men to pieces; and they shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eye shall not spare children.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees' excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.
LABEL:20
VERSE:It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there; neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.
LABEL:21
VERSE:But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: and her time is near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged.