TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:19
TITLE:Isaiah 19
SECTION:Egypt
LABEL:1
VERSE:The burden of Egypt.
VERSE:Behold, the LORD rideth upon a swift cloud, and shall come into Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his neighbour; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof; and I will destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek to the idols, and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to the wizards.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel lord; and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, the LORD of hosts.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be wasted and dried up.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And they shall turn the rivers far away; and the brooks of defence shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds and flags shall wither.
LABEL:7
VERSE:The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of the brooks, and every thing sown by the brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and be no more.
LABEL:8
VERSE:The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast angle into the brooks shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the waters shall languish.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Moreover they that work in fine flax, and they that weave networks, shall be confounded.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all that make sluices and ponds for fish.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Surely the princes of Zoan are fools, the counsel of the wise counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?
LABEL:12
VERSE:Where are they? where are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now, and let them know what the LORD of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt.
LABEL:13
VERSE:The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Noph are deceived; they have also seduced Egypt, even they that are the stay of the tribes thereof.
LABEL:14
VERSE:The LORD hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst thereof: and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunken man staggereth in his vomit.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head or tail, branch or rush, may do.
LABEL:16
VERSE:In that day shall Egypt be like unto women: and it shall be afraid and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the LORD of hosts, which he shaketh over it.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And the land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every one that maketh mention thereof shall be afraid in himself, because of the counsel of the LORD of hosts, which he hath determined against it.
LABEL:18
VERSE:In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak the language of Canaan, and swear to the LORD of hosts; one shall be called, The city of destruction.
LABEL:19
VERSE:In that day shall there be an altar to the LORD in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the LORD.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the LORD of hosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the LORD because of the oppressors, and he shall send them a saviour, and a great one, and he shall deliver them.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And the LORD shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the LORD in that day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation; yea, they shall vow a vow unto the LORD, and perform it.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And the LORD shall smite Egypt: he shall smite and heal it: and they shall return even to the LORD, and he shall be intreated of them, and shall heal them.
LABEL:23
VERSE:In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians.
LABEL:24
VERSE:In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land:
LABEL:25
VERSE:whom the LORD of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.