TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:52
TITLE:Isaiah 52
LABEL:1
VERSE:Awake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Shake thyself from the dust; arise, and sit down, O Jerusalem: loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For thus saith the LORD, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed without money.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For thus saith the Lord GOD, My people went down aforetime into Egypt to sojourn there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without cause.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Now therefore, what have I here, saith the LORD, that my people is taken away for nought? they that rule over them make them to howl, saith the LORD; and my name continually every day is blasphemed.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Therefore my people shall know my name: therefore they shall know in that day that I am he that doth speak: behold, it is I.
LABEL:7
VERSE:How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth!
LABEL:8
VERSE:Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the LORD shall bring again Zion.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem: for the LORD hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.
LABEL:10
VERSE:The LORD hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touch no unclean thing; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear the vessels of the LORD.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight: for the LORD will go before you; and the God of Israel will be your rereward.
SECTION:The Suffering Servant
LABEL:13
VERSE:Behold, my servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted and extolled, and be very high.
LABEL:14
VERSE:As many were astonied at thee; his visage was so marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men:
LABEL:15
VERSE:so shall he sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at him: for that which had not been told them shall they see; and that which they had not heard shall they consider.