TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:Isaiah 6
SECTION:Isaiah's Vision and Call
LABEL:1
VERSE:In the year that king Uzziah died I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Above it stood the seraphims: each one had six wings; with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the LORD of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Then said I, Woe is me! for I am undone; because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, the LORD of hosts.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar:
LABEL:7
VERSE:and he laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I; send me.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but understand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate,
LABEL:12
VERSE:and the LORD have removed men far away, and there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land.
LABEL:13
VERSE:But yet in it shall be a tenth, and it shall return, and shall be eaten: as a teil tree, and as an oak, whose substance is in them, when they cast their leaves: so the holy seed shall be the substance thereof.