TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1PE
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:1 Peter 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:In like manner, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, even if any obey not the word, they may without the word be gained by the behavior of their wives;
LABEL:2
VERSE:beholding your chaste behavior coupled with fear.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Whose adorning let it not be the outward adorning of braiding the hair, and of wearing jewels of gold, or of putting on apparel;
LABEL:4
VERSE:but let it be the hidden man of the heart, in the incorruptible apparel of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For after this manner aforetime the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands:
LABEL:6
VERSE:as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose children ye now are, if ye do well, and are not put in fear by any terror.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Ye husbands, in like manner, dwell with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor unto the woman, as unto the weaker vessel, as being also joint-heirs of the grace of life; to the end that your prayers be not hindered.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Finally, be ye all likeminded, compassionate, loving as brethren, tenderhearted, humbleminded:
LABEL:9
VERSE:not rendering evil for evil, or reviling for reviling; but contrariwise blessing; for hereunto were ye called, that ye should inherit a blessing.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For,
VERSE:He that would love life,
VERSE:And see good days,
VERSE:Let him refrain his tongue from evil,
VERSE:And his lips that they speak no guile:
LABEL:11
VERSE:And let him turn away from evil, and do good;
VERSE:Let him seek peace, and pursue it.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous,
VERSE:And his ears unto their supplication:
VERSE:But the face of the Lord is upon them that do evil.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And who is he that will harm you, if ye be zealous of that which is good?
LABEL:14
VERSE:But even if ye should suffer for righteousness’ sake, blessed are ye: and fear not their fear, neither be troubled;
LABEL:15
VERSE:but sanctify in your hearts Christ as Lord: being ready always to give answer to every man that asketh you a reason concerning the hope that is in you, yet with meekness and fear:
LABEL:16
VERSE:having a good conscience; that, wherein ye are spoken against, they may be put to shame who revile your good manner of life in Christ.
LABEL:17
VERSE:For it is better, if the will of God should so will, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil-doing.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Because Christ also suffered for sins once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God; being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit;
LABEL:19
VERSE:in which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison,
LABEL:20
VERSE:that aforetime were disobedient, when the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water:
LABEL:21
VERSE:which also after a true likeness doth now save you, even baptism, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the interrogation of a good conscience toward God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ;
LABEL:22
VERSE:who is on the right hand of God, having gone into heaven; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him.