TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ZEC
CHAPTER:9
TITLE:Zechariah 9
SECTION:The City of God
SECTION:Look to the Lord
LABEL:1
VERSE:The burden of the word of the LORD in the land of Hadrach, and Damascus shall be the rest thereof: when the eyes of man, as of all the tribes of Israel, shall be toward the LORD.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And Hamath also shall border thereby; Tyrus, and Zidon, though it be very wise.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And Tyrus did build herself a strong hold, and heaped up silver as the dust, and fine gold as the mire of the streets.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Behold, the Lord will cast her out, and he will smite her power in the sea; and she shall be devoured with fire.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Ashkelon shall see it, and fear; Gaza also shall see it, and be very sorrowful, and Ekron; for her expectation shall be ashamed; and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And a bastard shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And I will take away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth: but he that remaineth, even he, shall be for our God, and he shall be as a governor in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And I will encamp about mine house because of the army, because of him that passeth by, and because of him that returneth: and no oppressor shall pass through them any more: for now have I seen with mine eyes.
SECTION:The King of Peace
LABEL:9
VERSE:Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, thy King cometh unto thee: he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of an ass.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off: and he shall speak peace unto the heathen: and his dominion shall be from sea even to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth.
LABEL:11
VERSE:As for thee also, by the blood of thy covenant I have sent forth thy prisoners out of the pit wherein is no water.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Turn you to the strong hold, ye prisoners of hope: even to day do I declare that I will render double unto thee;
LABEL:13
VERSE:when I have bent Judah for me, filled the bow with Ephraim, and raised up thy sons, O Zion, against thy sons, O Greece, and made thee as the sword of a mighty man.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And the LORD shall be seen over them, and his arrow shall go forth as the lightning: and the Lord GOD shall blow the trumpet, and shall go with whirlwinds of the south.
SECTION:He Will Save His People
LABEL:15
VERSE:The LORD of hosts shall defend them; and they shall devour, and subdue with sling stones; and they shall drink, and make a noise as through wine; and they shall be filled like bowls, and as the corners of the altar.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And the LORD their God shall save them in that day as the flock of his people: for they shall be as the stones of a crown, lifted up as an ensign upon his land.
LABEL:17
VERSE:For how great is his goodness, and how great is his beauty! corn shall make the young men cheerful, and new wine the maids.