TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:HEB
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:Hebrews 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:Let us fear therefore, lest haply, a promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you should seem to have come short of it.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For indeed we have had good tidings preached unto us, even as also they: but the word of hearing did not profit them, because it was not united by faith with them that heard.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For we who have believed do enter into that rest; even as he hath said,
VERSE:As I sware in my wrath,
VERSE:They shall not enter into my rest:
VERSE:although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For he hath said somewhere of the seventh day on this wise, And God rested on the seventh day from all his works;
LABEL:5
VERSE:and in this place again,
VERSE:They shall not enter into my rest.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Seeing therefore it remaineth that some should enter thereinto, and they to whom the good tidings were before preached failed to enter in because of disobedience,
LABEL:7
VERSE:he again defineth a certain day, To-day, saying in David so long a time afterward (even as hath been said before),
VERSE:To-day if ye shall hear his voice,
VERSE:Harden not your hearts.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken afterward of another day.
LABEL:9
VERSE:There remaineth therefore a sabbath rest for the people of God.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For he that is entered into his rest hath himself also rested from his works, as God did from his.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, that no man fall after the same example of disobedience.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For the word of God is living, and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and quick to discern the thoughts and intents of the heart.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And there is no creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Having then a great high priest, who hath passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For we have not a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but one that hath been in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Let us therefore draw near with boldness unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and may find grace to help us in time of need.