TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:JOL
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Joel 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:The word of Jehovah that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land. Hath this been in your days, or in the days of your fathers?
LABEL:3
VERSE:Tell ye your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and their children another generation.
LABEL:4
VERSE:That which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that which the locust hath left hath the canker-worm eaten; and that which the canker-worm hath left hath the caterpillar eaten.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Awake, ye drunkards, and weep; and wail, all ye drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine; for it is cut off from your mouth.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number; his teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the jaw-teeth of a lioness.
LABEL:7
VERSE:He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig-tree: he hath made it clean bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are made white.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth.
LABEL:9
VERSE:The meal-offering and the drink-offering are cut off from the house of Jehovah; the priests, Jehovah’s ministers, mourn.
LABEL:10
VERSE:The field is laid waste, the land mourneth; for the grain is destroyed, the new wine is dried up, the oil languisheth.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Be confounded, O ye husbandmen, wail, O ye vinedressers, for the wheat and for the barley; for the harvest of the field is perished.
LABEL:12
VERSE:The vine is withered, and the fig-tree languisheth; the pomegranate-tree, the palm-tree also, and the apple-tree, even all the trees of the field are withered: for joy is withered away from the sons of men.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Gird yourselves with sackcloth, and lament, ye priests; wail, ye ministers of the altar; come, lie all night in sackcloth, ye ministers of my God: for the meal-offering and the drink-offering are withholden from the house of your God.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the old men and all the inhabitants of the land unto the house of Jehovah your God, and cry unto Jehovah.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Alas for the day! for the day of Jehovah is at hand, and as destruction from the Almighty shall it come.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Is not the food cut off before our eyes, yea, joy and gladness from the house of our God?
LABEL:17
VERSE:The seeds rot under their clods; the garners are laid desolate, the barns are broken down; for the grain is withered.
LABEL:18
VERSE:How do the beasts groan! the herds of cattle are perplexed, because they have no pasture; yea, the flocks of sheep are made desolate.
LABEL:19
VERSE:O Jehovah, to thee do I cry; for the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath burned all the trees of the field.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Yea, the beasts of the field pant unto thee; for the water brooks are dried up, and the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness.