TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:1JN
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:1 John 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is the transgression of the law.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.
LABEL:8
VERSE:He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed remaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.
LABEL:10
VERSE:In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you.
LABEL:14
VERSE:We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?
LABEL:18
VERSE:My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hath given us.