TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:11
TITLE:Romans 11
LABEL:1
VERSE:I ask then, did God reject his people? May it never be! For I also am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
LABEL:2
VERSE:God didn’t reject his people, whom he foreknew. Or don’t you know what the Scripture says about Elijah? How he pleads with God against Israel:
LABEL:3
VERSE:“Lord, they have killed your prophets. They have broken down your altars. I am left alone, and they seek my life.”
LABEL:4
VERSE:But how does God answer him? “I have reserved for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”
LABEL:5
VERSE:Even so too at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And if by grace, then it is no longer of works; otherwise grace is no longer grace. But if it is of works, it is no longer grace; otherwise work is no longer work.
LABEL:7
VERSE:What then? That which Israel seeks for, that he didn’t obtain, but the chosen ones obtained it, and the rest were hardened.
LABEL:8
VERSE:According as it is written, “God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear, to this very day.”
LABEL:9
VERSE:David says,
VERSE:“Let their table be made a snare, a trap,
VERSE:a stumbling block, and a retribution to them.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see.
VERSE:Always keep their backs bent.”
LABEL:11
VERSE:I ask then, did they stumble that they might fall? May it never be! But by their fall salvation has come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Now if their fall is the riches of the world, and their loss the riches of the Gentiles, how much more their fullness!
LABEL:13
VERSE:For I speak to you who are Gentiles. Since then as I am an apostle to Gentiles, I glorify my ministry,
LABEL:14
VERSE:if by any means I may provoke to jealousy those who are my flesh, and may save some of them.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For if the rejection of them is the reconciling of the world, what would their acceptance be, but life from the dead?
LABEL:16
VERSE:If the first fruit is holy, so is the lump. If the root is holy, so are the branches.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive, were grafted in among them and became partaker with them of the root and of the richness of the olive tree,
LABEL:18
VERSE:don’t boast over the branches. But if you boast, remember that it is not you who support the root, but the root supports you.
LABEL:19
VERSE:You will say then, “Branches were broken off, that I might be grafted in.”
LABEL:20
VERSE:True; by their unbelief they were broken off, and you stand by your faith. Don’t be conceited, but fear;
LABEL:21
VERSE:for if God didn’t spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you.
LABEL:22
VERSE:See then the goodness and severity of God. Toward those who fell, severity; but toward you, goodness, if you continue in his goodness; otherwise you also will be cut off.
LABEL:23
VERSE:They also, if they don’t continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
LABEL:24
VERSE:For if you were cut out of that which is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree, how much more will these, which are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree?
LABEL:25
VERSE:For I don’t desire you to be ignorant, brothers, of this mystery, so that you won’t be wise in your own conceits, that a partial hardening has happened to Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in,
LABEL:26
VERSE:and so all Israel will be saved. Even as it is written,
VERSE:“There will come out of Zion the Deliverer,
VERSE:and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
LABEL:27
VERSE:This is my covenant with them,
VERSE:when I will take away their sins.”
LABEL:28
VERSE:Concerning the Good News, they are enemies for your sake. But concerning the election, they are beloved for the fathers’ sake.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
LABEL:30
VERSE:For as you in time past were disobedient to God, but now have obtained mercy by their disobedience,
LABEL:31
VERSE:even so these also have now been disobedient, that by the mercy shown to you they may also obtain mercy.
LABEL:32
VERSE:For God has bound all to disobedience, that he might have mercy on all.
LABEL:33
VERSE:Oh the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past tracing out!
LABEL:34
VERSE:“For who has known the mind of the Lord?
VERSE:Or who has been his counselor?”
LABEL:35
VERSE:“Or who has first given to him,
VERSE:and it will be repaid to him again?”
LABEL:36
VERSE:For of him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory for ever! Amen.