TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:Romans 12
LABEL:1
VERSE:Therefore I urge you, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Don’t be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what is the good, well-pleasing, and perfect will of God.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For I say through the grace that was given me, to everyone who is among you, not to think of yourself more highly than you ought to think; but to think reasonably, as God has apportioned to each person a measure of faith.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For even as we have many members in one body, and all the members don’t have the same function,
LABEL:5
VERSE:so we, who are many, are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another,
LABEL:6
VERSE:having gifts differing according to the grace that was given to us: if prophecy, let’s prophesy according to the proportion of our faith;
LABEL:7
VERSE:or service, let’s give ourselves to service; or he who teaches, to his teaching;
LABEL:8
VERSE:or he who exhorts, to his exhorting; he who gives, let him do it with generosity; he who rules, with diligence; he who shows mercy, with cheerfulness.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor that which is evil. Cling to that which is good.
LABEL:10
VERSE:In love of the brothers be tenderly affectionate to one another; in honor prefer one another,
LABEL:11
VERSE:not lagging in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord,
LABEL:12
VERSE:rejoicing in hope, enduring in troubles, continuing steadfastly in prayer,
LABEL:13
VERSE:contributing to the needs of the saints, and given to hospitality.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Bless those who persecute you; bless, and don’t curse.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Be of the same mind one toward another. Don’t set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble. Don’t be wise in your own conceits.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Repay no one evil for evil. Respect what is honorable in the sight of all men.
LABEL:18
VERSE:If it is possible, as much as it is up to you, be at peace with all men.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Don’t seek revenge yourselves, beloved, but give place to God’s wrath. For it is written, “Vengeance belongs to me; I will repay, says the Lord.”
LABEL:20
VERSE:Therefore
VERSE:“If your enemy is hungry, feed him.
VERSE:If he is thirsty, give him a drink;
VERSE:for in doing so, you will heap coals of fire on his head.”
LABEL:21
VERSE:Don’t be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.