TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:ROM
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Romans 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:Therefore you are without excuse, O man, whoever you are who judge. For in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things.
LABEL:2
VERSE:We know that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Do you think this, O man who judges those who practice such things, and do the same, that you will escape the judgment of God?
LABEL:4
VERSE:Or do you despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and patience, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance?
LABEL:5
VERSE:But according to your hardness and unrepentant heart you are treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath, revelation, and of the righteous judgment of God,
LABEL:6
VERSE:who “will pay back to everyone according to their works:”
LABEL:7
VERSE:to those who by perseverance in well-doing seek for glory, honor, and incorruptibility, eternal life;
LABEL:8
VERSE:but to those who are self-seeking and don’t obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, will be wrath, indignation,
LABEL:9
VERSE:oppression, and anguish on every soul of man who does evil, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But glory, honor, and peace go to every man who does good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For there is no partiality with God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For as many as have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. As many as have sinned under the law will be judged by the law.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For it isn’t the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law will be justified
LABEL:14
VERSE:(for when Gentiles who don’t have the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are a law to themselves,
LABEL:15
VERSE:in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience testifying with them, and their thoughts among themselves accusing or else excusing them)
LABEL:16
VERSE:in the day when God will judge the secrets of men, according to my Good News, by Jesus Christ.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Indeed you bear the name of a Jew, rest on the law, glory in God,
LABEL:18
VERSE:know his will, and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law,
LABEL:19
VERSE:and are confident that you yourself are a guide of the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
LABEL:20
VERSE:a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of babies, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth.
LABEL:21
VERSE:You therefore who teach another, don’t you teach yourself? You who preach that a man shouldn’t steal, do you steal?
LABEL:22
VERSE:You who say a man shouldn’t commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?
LABEL:23
VERSE:You who glory in the law, do you dishonor God by disobeying the law?
LABEL:24
VERSE:For “the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you,”  just as it is written.
LABEL:25
VERSE:For circumcision indeed profits, if you are a doer of the law, but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
LABEL:26
VERSE:If therefore the uncircumcised keep the ordinances of the law, won’t his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision?
LABEL:27
VERSE:Won’t those who are physically uncircumcised, but fulfill the law, judge you, who with the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law?
LABEL:28
VERSE:For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh;
LABEL:29
VERSE:but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God.