TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:2CH
CHAPTER:36
TITLE:2 Chronicles 36
LABEL:1
VERSE:Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and made him king in his father’s stead in Jerusalem.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Joahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And the king of Egypt deposed him at Jerusalem, and fined the land a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. And Neco took Joahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah his God.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and bound him in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of Jehovah to Babylon, and put them in his temple at Babylon.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations which he did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah: and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And at the return of the year king Nebuchadnezzar sent, and brought him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of Jehovah, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem:
LABEL:12
VERSE:and he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah his God; he humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet speaking from the mouth of Jehovah.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart against turning unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Moreover all the chiefs of the priests, and the people, trespassed very greatly after all the abominations of the nations; and they polluted the house of Jehovah which he had hallowed in Jerusalem.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And Jehovah, the God of their fathers, sent to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending, because he had compassion on his people, and on his dwelling-place:
LABEL:16
VERSE:but they mocked the messengers of God, and despised his words, and scoffed at his prophets, until the wrath of Jehovah arose against his people, till there was no remedy.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldeans, who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion upon young man or virgin, old man or hoary-headed: he gave them all into his hand.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king, and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And they burnt the house of God, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed all the goodly vessels thereof.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to Babylon; and they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia:
LABEL:21
VERSE:to fulfil the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed its sabbaths: for as long as it lay desolate it kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and ten years.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of Jehovah by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, Jehovah stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying,
LABEL:23
VERSE:Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth hath Jehovah, the God of heaven, given me; and he hath charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whosoever there is among you of all his people, Jehovah his God be with him, and let him go up.