TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:HEB
CHAPTER:13
TITLE:Hebrews 13
SECTION:Perfect in Every Good Work
LABEL:1
VERSE:Let brotherly love continue.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them which suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Marriage is honourable in all, and the bed undefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Let your conversation be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
LABEL:6
VERSE:So that we may boldly say,
VERSE:The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear
VERSE:What man shall do unto me.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein.
LABEL:10
VERSE:We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come.
LABEL:15
VERSE:By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.
LABEL:16
VERSE:But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly.
LABEL:19
VERSE:But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
LABEL:21
VERSE:make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for I have written a letter unto you in few words.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you.
LABEL:25
VERSE:Grace be with you all. Amen.
VERSE:Written to the Hebrews from Italy by Timothy.