TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:MAT
CHAPTER:25
TITLE:Matthew 25
LABEL:1
VERSE:  “Then the Kingdom of Heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Five of them were foolish, and five were wise.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Those who were foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them,
LABEL:4
VERSE:but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Now while the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But at midnight there was a cry, ‘Behold! The bridegroom is coming! Come out to meet him!’
LABEL:7
VERSE:Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
LABEL:8
VERSE:The foolish said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’
LABEL:9
VERSE:But the wise answered, saying, ‘What if there isn’t enough for us and you? You go rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.’
LABEL:10
VERSE:While they went away to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast, and the door was shut.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Afterward the other virgins also came, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open to us.’
LABEL:12
VERSE:But he answered, ‘Most certainly I tell you, I don’t know you.’
LABEL:13
VERSE:Watch therefore, for you don’t know the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming.
LABEL:14
VERSE:  “For it is like a man going into another country, who called his own servants and entrusted his goods to them.
LABEL:15
VERSE:To one he gave five talents,  to another two, to another one, to each according to his own ability. Then he went on his journey.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Immediately he who received the five talents went and traded with them, and made another five talents.
LABEL:17
VERSE:In the same way, he also who got the two gained another two.
LABEL:18
VERSE:But he who received the one talent went away and dug in the earth and hid his lord’s money.
LABEL:19
VERSE:  “Now after a long time the lord of those servants came, and settled accounts with them.
LABEL:20
VERSE:He who received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, ‘Lord, you delivered to me five talents. Behold, I have gained another five talents in addition to them.’
LABEL:21
VERSE:  “His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’
LABEL:22
VERSE:  “He also who got the two talents came and said, ‘Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Behold, I have gained another two talents in addition to them.’
LABEL:23
VERSE:  “His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things. I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’
LABEL:24
VERSE:  “He also who had received the one talent came and said, ‘Lord, I knew you that you are a hard man, reaping where you didn’t sow, and gathering where you didn’t scatter.
LABEL:25
VERSE:I was afraid, and went away and hid your talent in the earth. Behold, you have what is yours.’
LABEL:26
VERSE:  “But his lord answered him, ‘You wicked and slothful servant. You knew that I reap where I didn’t sow, and gather where I didn’t scatter.
LABEL:27
VERSE:You ought therefore to have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back my own with interest.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Take away therefore the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For to everyone who has will be given, and he will have abundance, but from him who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Throw out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’
LABEL:31
VERSE:  “But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory.
LABEL:32
VERSE:Before him all the nations will be gathered, and he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
LABEL:33
VERSE:He will set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
LABEL:34
VERSE:Then the King will tell those on his right hand, ‘Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world;
LABEL:35
VERSE:for I was hungry and you gave me food to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in.
LABEL:36
VERSE:I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me.’
LABEL:37
VERSE:  “Then the righteous will answer him, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you a drink?
LABEL:38
VERSE:When did we see you as a stranger and take you in, or naked and clothe you?
LABEL:39
VERSE:When did we see you sick or in prison and come to you?’
LABEL:40
VERSE:  “The King will answer them, ‘Most certainly I tell you, because you did it to one of the least of these my brothers,    you did it to me.’
LABEL:41
VERSE:Then he will say also to those on the left hand, ‘Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels;
LABEL:42
VERSE:for I was hungry, and you didn’t give me food to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me no drink;
LABEL:43
VERSE:I was a stranger, and you didn’t take me in; naked, and you didn’t clothe me; sick, and in prison, and you didn’t visit me.’
LABEL:44
VERSE:  “Then they will also answer, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and didn’t help you?’
LABEL:45
VERSE:  “Then he will answer them, saying, ‘Most certainly I tell you, because you didn’t do it to one of the least of these, you didn’t do it to me.’
LABEL:46
VERSE:These will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.”