TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ACT
CHAPTER:18
TITLE:Acts 18
SECTION:Corinth
LABEL:1
VERSE:After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth;
LABEL:2
VERSE:and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came unto them.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook his raiment, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean: from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house, named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed, and were baptized.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace:
LABEL:10
VERSE:for I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in this city.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the judgment seat,
LABEL:13
VERSE:saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Gallio said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews, reason would that I should bear with you:
LABEL:15
VERSE:but if it be a question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it; for I will be no judge of such matters.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And he drave them from the judgment seat.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for none of those things.
LABEL:18
VERSE:And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he had a vow.
SECTION:Ephesus
LABEL:19
VERSE:And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.
LABEL:20
VERSE:When they desired him to tarry longer time with them, he consented not;
LABEL:21
VERSE:but bade them farewell, saying, I must by all means keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return again unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And when he had landed at Cæsarea, and gone up, and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch.
SECTION:Third Missionary Journey
LABEL:23
VERSE:And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and went over all the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus.
LABEL:25
VERSE:This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come, helped them much which had believed through grace:
LABEL:28
VERSE:for he mightily convinced the Jews, and that publickly, shewing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ.