TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:ACT
CHAPTER:28
TITLE:Acts 28
SECTION:Malta
LABEL:1
VERSE:And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island was called Melita.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for they kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present rain, and because of the cold.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand, they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god.
LABEL:7
VERSE:In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius; who received us, and lodged us three days courteously.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and of a bloody flux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laid his hands on him, and healed him.
LABEL:9
VERSE:So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in the island, came, and were healed:
LABEL:10
VERSE:who also honoured us with many honours; and when we departed, they laded us with such things as were necessary.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And after three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria, which had wintered in the isle, whose sign was Castor and Pollux.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And landing at Syracuse, we tarried there three days.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And from thence we fetched a compass, and came to Rhegium: and after one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day to Puteoli:
LABEL:14
VERSE:where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with them seven days: and so we went toward Rome.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And from thence, when the brethren heard of us, they came to meet us as far as Appii forum, and The three taverns: whom when Paul saw, he thanked God, and took courage.
SECTION:Paul in Rome
LABEL:16
VERSE:And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard: but Paul was suffered to dwell by himself with a soldier that kept him.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And it came to pass, that after three days Paul called the chief of the Jews together: and when they were come together, he said unto them, Men and brethren, though I have committed nothing against the people, or customs of our fathers, yet was I delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Who, when they had examined me, would have let me go, because there was no cause of death in me.
LABEL:19
VERSE:But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal unto Cæsar; not that I had ought to accuse my nation of.
LABEL:20
VERSE:For this cause therefore have I called for you, to see you, and to speak with you: because that for the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And they said unto him, We neither received letters out of Judæa concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came shewed or spake any harm of thee.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, we know that every where it is spoken against.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to him into his lodging; to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses, and out of the prophets, from morning till evening.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And some believed the things which were spoken, and some believed not.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed, after that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Ghost by Esaias the prophet unto our fathers,
LABEL:26
VERSE:saying,
VERSE:Go unto this people, and say,
VERSE:Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand;
VERSE:And seeing ye shall see, and not perceive:
LABEL:27
VERSE:For the heart of this people is waxed gross,
VERSE:And their ears are dull of hearing,
VERSE:And their eyes have they closed;
VERSE:Lest they should see with their eyes,
VERSE:And hear with their ears,
VERSE:And understand with their heart,
VERSE:And should be converted,
VERSE:And I should heal them.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Be it known therefore unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles, and that they will hear it.
LABEL:29
VERSE:And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, and had great reasoning among themselves.
LABEL:30
VERSE:And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came in unto him,
LABEL:31
VERSE:preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, no man forbidding him.