TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1CH
CHAPTER:17
TITLE:1 Chronicles 17
LABEL:1
VERSE:And it came to pass, when David dwelt in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of Jehovah dwelleth under curtains.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thy heart; for God is with thee.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying,
LABEL:4
VERSE:Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith Jehovah, Thou shalt not build me a house to dwell in:
LABEL:5
VERSE:for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up Israel, unto this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle to another.
LABEL:6
VERSE:In all places wherein I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people, saying, Why have ye not built me a house of cedar?
LABEL:7
VERSE:Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be prince over my people Israel:
LABEL:8
VERSE:and I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast gone, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will make thee a name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the earth.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the first,
LABEL:10
VERSE:and as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will subdue all thine enemies. Moreover I tell thee that Jehovah will build thee a house.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And it shall come to pass, when thy days are fulfilled that thou must go to be with thy fathers, that I will set up thy seed after thee, who shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom.
LABEL:12
VERSE:He shall build me a house, and I will establish his throne for ever.
LABEL:13
VERSE:I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not take my lovingkindness away from him, as I took it from him that was before thee;
LABEL:14
VERSE:but I will settle him in my house and in my kingdom for ever; and his throne shall be established for ever.
LABEL:15
VERSE:According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Jehovah God, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far?
LABEL:17
VERSE:And this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God; but thou hast spoken of thy servant’s house for a great while to come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O Jehovah God.
LABEL:18
VERSE:What can David say yet more unto thee concerning the honor which is done to thy servant? for thou knowest thy servant.
LABEL:19
VERSE:O Jehovah, for thy servant’s sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou wrought all this greatness, to make known all these great things.
LABEL:20
VERSE:O Jehovah, there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whom God went to redeem unto himself for a people, to make thee a name by great and terrible things, in driving out nations from before thy people, whom thou redeemedst out of Egypt?
LABEL:22
VERSE:For thy people Israel didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, Jehovah, becamest their God.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And now, O Jehovah, let the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, be established for ever, and do as thou hast spoken.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And let thy name be established and magnified for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel: and the house of David thy servant is established before thee.
LABEL:25
VERSE:For thou, O my God, hast revealed to thy servant that thou wilt build him a house: therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray before thee.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And now, O Jehovah, thou art God, and hast promised this good thing unto thy servant:
LABEL:27
VERSE:and now it hath pleased thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee: for thou, O Jehovah, hast blessed, and it is blessed for ever.