TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1CH
CHAPTER:18
TITLE:1 Chronicles 18
LABEL:1
VERSE:And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadarezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadarezer, David took very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah,
LABEL:10
VERSE:he sent Hadoram his son to king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and smitten him (for Hadarezer had wars with Tou); and he had with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass.
LABEL:11
VERSE:These also did king David dedicate unto Jehovah, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah smote of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt eighteen thousand.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And David reigned over all Israel; and he executed justice and righteousness unto all his people.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
LABEL:16
VERSE:and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe;
LABEL:17
VERSE:and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief about the king.