TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1CH
CHAPTER:21
TITLE:1 Chronicles 21
LABEL:1
VERSE:And Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to number Israel.
LABEL:2
VERSE:And David said to Joab and to the princes of the people, Go, number Israel from Beer-sheba even to Dan; and bring me word, that I may know the sum of them.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And Joab said, Jehovah make his people a hundred times as many as they are: but, my lord the king, are they not all my lord’s servants? why doth my lord require this thing? why will he be a cause of guilt unto Israel?
LABEL:4
VERSE:Nevertheless the king’s word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the people unto David. And all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and a hundred thousand men that drew sword: and Judah was four hundred threescore and ten thousand men that drew sword.
LABEL:6
VERSE:But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them; for the king’s word was abominable to Joab.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote Israel.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, in that I have done this thing: but now, put away, I beseech thee, the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And Jehovah spake unto Gad, David’s seer, saying,
LABEL:10
VERSE:Go and speak unto David, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, I offer thee three things: choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee.
LABEL:11
VERSE:So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Take which thou wilt:
LABEL:12
VERSE:either three years of famine; or three months to be consumed before thy foes, while the sword of thine enemies overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of Jehovah, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of Jehovah destroying throughout all the borders of Israel. Now therefore consider what answer I shall return to him that sent me.
LABEL:13
VERSE:And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall, I pray, into the hand of Jehovah; for very great are his mercies: and let me not fall into the hand of man.
LABEL:14
VERSE:So Jehovah sent a pestilence upon Israel; and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he was about to destroy, Jehovah beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now stay thy hand. And the angel of Jehovah was standing by the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of Jehovah standing between earth and heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.
LABEL:17
VERSE:And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done very wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? let thy hand, I pray thee, O Jehovah my God, be against me, and against my father’s house; but not against thy people, that they should be plagued.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Then the angel of Jehovah commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up, and rear an altar unto Jehovah in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of Jehovah.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons that were with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshing-floor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Then David said to Ornan, Give me the place of this threshing-floor, that I may build thereon an altar unto Jehovah: for the full price shalt thou give it me, that the plague may be stayed from the people.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give thee the oxen for burnt-offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meal-offering; I give it all.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for the full price: for I will not take that which is thine for Jehovah, nor offer a burnt-offering without cost.
LABEL:25
VERSE:So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And David built there an altar unto Jehovah, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, and called upon Jehovah; and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt-offering.
LABEL:27
VERSE:And Jehovah commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again into the sheath thereof.
LABEL:28
VERSE:At that time, when David saw that Jehovah had answered him in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For the tabernacle of Jehovah, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt-offering, were at that time in the high place at Gibeon.
LABEL:30
VERSE:But David could not go before it to inquire of God; for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of Jehovah.