TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:2TI
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:2 Timothy 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus,
LABEL:2
VERSE:to Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
LABEL:3
VERSE:I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, how unceasing is my remembrance of thee in my supplications, night and day
LABEL:4
VERSE:longing to see thee, remembering thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;
LABEL:5
VERSE:having been reminded of the unfeigned faith that is in thee; which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and, I am persuaded, in thee also.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For which cause I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee through the laying on of my hands.
LABEL:7
VERSE:For God gave us not a spirit of fearfulness; but of power and love and discipline.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Be not ashamed therefore of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but suffer hardship with the gospel according to the power of God;
LABEL:9
VERSE:who saved us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before times eternal,
LABEL:10
VERSE:but hath now been manifested by the appearing of our Saviour Christ Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel,
LABEL:11
VERSE:whereunto I was appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For which cause I suffer also these things: yet I am not ashamed; for I know him whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to guard that which I have committed unto him against that day.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Hold the pattern of sound words which thou hast heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:14
VERSE:That good thing which was committed unto thee guard through the Holy Spirit which dwelleth in us.
LABEL:15
VERSE:This thou knowest, that all that are in Asia turned away from me; of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
LABEL:16
VERSE:The Lord grant mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus: for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain;
LABEL:17
VERSE:but, when he was in Rome, he sought me diligently, and found me
LABEL:18
VERSE:(the Lord grant unto him to find mercy of the Lord in that day); and in how many things he ministered at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.