TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:2TI
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:2 Timothy 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:But know this, that in the last days grievous times shall come.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For men shall be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, haughty, railers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
LABEL:3
VERSE:without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, fierce, no lovers of good,
LABEL:4
VERSE:traitors, headstrong, puffed up, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God;
LABEL:5
VERSE:holding a form of godliness, but having denied the power thereof: from these also turn away.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For of these are they that creep into houses, and take captive silly women laden with sins, led away by divers lusts,
LABEL:7
VERSE:ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And even as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also withstand the truth; men corrupted in mind, reprobate concerning the faith.
LABEL:9
VERSE:But they shall proceed no further: for their folly shall be evident unto all men, as theirs also came to be.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But thou didst follow my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, longsuffering, love, patience,
LABEL:11
VERSE:persecutions, sufferings; what things befell me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured: and out of them all the Lord delivered me.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Yea, and all that would live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution.
LABEL:13
VERSE:But evil men and impostors shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.
LABEL:14
VERSE:But abide thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them;
LABEL:15
VERSE:and that from a babe thou hast known the sacred writings which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Every scripture inspired of God is also profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction which is in righteousness:
LABEL:17
VERSE:that the man of God may be complete, furnished completely unto every good work.