TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:11
TITLE:1 Corinthians 11
LABEL:1
VERSE:Be ye imitators of me, even as I also am of Christ.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Now I praise you that ye remember me in all things, and hold fast the traditions, even as I delivered them to you.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoreth his head.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But every woman praying or prophesying with her head unveiled dishonoreth her head; for it is one and the same thing as if she were shaven.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For if a woman is not veiled, let her also be shorn: but if it is a shame to a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be veiled.
LABEL:7
VERSE:For a man indeed ought not to have his head veiled, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For the man is not of the woman; but the woman of the man:
LABEL:9
VERSE:for neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man:
LABEL:10
VERSE:for this cause ought the woman to have a sign of authority on her head, because of the angels.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Nevertheless, neither is the woman without the man, nor the man without the woman, in the Lord.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For as the woman is of the man, so is the man also by the woman; but all things are of God.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Judge ye in yourselves: is it seemly that a woman pray unto God unveiled?
LABEL:14
VERSE:Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a dishonor to him?
LABEL:15
VERSE:But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a covering.
LABEL:16
VERSE:But if any man seemeth to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But in giving you this charge, I praise you not, that ye come together not for the better but for the worse.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that divisions exist among you; and I partly believe it.
LABEL:19
VERSE:For there must be also factions among you, that they that are approved may be made manifest among you.
LABEL:20
VERSE:When therefore ye assemble yourselves together, it is not possible to eat the Lord’s supper:
LABEL:21
VERSE:for in your eating each one taketh before other his own supper; and one is hungry, and another is drunken.
LABEL:22
VERSE:What, have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or despise ye the church of God, and put them to shame that have not? What shall I say to you? shall I praise you? In this I praise you not.
LABEL:23
VERSE:For I received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was betrayed took bread;
LABEL:24
VERSE:and when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, This is my body, which is for you: this do in remembrance of me.
LABEL:25
VERSE:In like manner also the cup, after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood: this do, as often as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.
LABEL:26
VERSE:For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink the cup, ye proclaim the Lord’s death till he come.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Wherefore whosoever shall eat the bread or drink the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord.
LABEL:28
VERSE:But let a man prove himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup.
LABEL:29
VERSE:For he that eateth and drinketh, eateth and drinketh judgment unto himself, if he discern not the body.
LABEL:30
VERSE:For this cause many among you are weak and sickly, and not a few sleep.
LABEL:31
VERSE:But if we discerned ourselves, we should not be judged.
LABEL:32
VERSE:But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world.
LABEL:33
VERSE:Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, wait one for another.
LABEL:34
VERSE:If any man is hungry, let him eat at home; that your coming together be not unto judgment. And the rest will I set in order whensoever I come.