TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:12
TITLE:1 Corinthians 12
LABEL:1
VERSE:Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Ye know that when ye were Gentiles ye were led away unto those dumb idols, howsoever ye might be led.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Wherefore I make known unto you, that no man speaking in the Spirit of God saith, Jesus is anathema; and no man can say, Jesus is Lord, but in the Holy Spirit.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And there are diversities of ministrations, and the same Lord.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And there are diversities of workings, but the same God, who worketh all things in all.
LABEL:7
VERSE:But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit to profit withal.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For to one is given through the Spirit the word of wisdom; and to another the word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit:
LABEL:9
VERSE:to another faith, in the same Spirit; and to another gifts of healings, in the one Spirit;
LABEL:10
VERSE:and to another workings of miracles; and to another prophecy; and to another discernings of spirits: to another divers kinds of tongues; and to another the interpretation of tongues:
LABEL:11
VERSE:but all these worketh the one and the same Spirit, dividing to each one severally even as he will.
LABEL:12
VERSE:For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For in one Spirit were we all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all made to drink of one Spirit.
LABEL:14
VERSE:For the body is not one member, but many.
LABEL:15
VERSE:If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; it is not therefore not of the body.
LABEL:16
VERSE:And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; it is not therefore not of the body.
LABEL:17
VERSE:If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?
LABEL:18
VERSE:But now hath God set the members each one of them in the body, even as it pleased him.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And if they were all one member, where were the body?
LABEL:20
VERSE:But now they are many members, but one body.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee: or again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Nay, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary:
LABEL:23
VERSE:and those parts of the body, which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness;
LABEL:24
VERSE:whereas our comely parts have no need: but God tempered the body together, giving more abundant honor to that part which lacked;
LABEL:25
VERSE:that there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another.
LABEL:26
VERSE:And whether one member suffereth, all the members suffer with it; or one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Now ye are the body of Christ, and severally members thereof.
LABEL:28
VERSE:And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, divers kinds of tongues.
LABEL:29
VERSE:Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of miracles?
LABEL:30
VERSE:have all gifts of healings? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?
LABEL:31
VERSE:But desire earnestly the greater gifts. And moreover a most excellent way show I unto you.