TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:1 Corinthians 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:And I, brethren, when I came unto you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified.
LABEL:3
VERSE:And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And my speech and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power:
LABEL:5
VERSE:that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
LABEL:6
VERSE:We speak wisdom, however, among them that are fullgrown: yet a wisdom not of this world, nor of the rulers of this world, who are coming to nought:
LABEL:7
VERSE:but we speak God’s wisdom in a mystery, even the wisdom that hath been hidden, which God foreordained before the worlds unto our glory:
LABEL:8
VERSE:which none of the rulers of this world hath known: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory:
LABEL:9
VERSE:but as it is written,
VERSE:Things which eye saw not, and ear heard not,
VERSE:And which entered not into the heart of man,
VERSE:Whatsoever things God prepared for them that love him.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But unto us God revealed them through the Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:For who among men knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of the man, which is in him? even so the things of God none knoweth, save the Spirit of God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:But we received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is from God; that we might know the things that were freely given to us of God.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Which things also we speak, not in words which man’s wisdom teacheth, but which the Spirit teacheth; combining spiritual things with spiritual words.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Now the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him; and he cannot know them, because they are spiritually judged.
LABEL:15
VERSE:But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, and he himself is judged of no man.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he should instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.