TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:1CO
CHAPTER:6
TITLE:1 Corinthians 6
LABEL:1
VERSE:Dare any of you, having a matter against his neighbor, go to law before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?
LABEL:2
VERSE:Or know ye not that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world is judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?
LABEL:3
VERSE:Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more, things that pertain to this life?
LABEL:4
VERSE:If then ye have to judge things pertaining to this life, do ye set them to judge who are of no account in the church?
LABEL:5
VERSE:I say this to move you to shame. What, cannot there be found among you one wise man who shall be able to decide between his brethren,
LABEL:6
VERSE:but brother goeth to law with brother, and that before unbelievers?
LABEL:7
VERSE:Nay, already it is altogether a defect in you, that ye have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather take wrong? why not rather be defrauded?
LABEL:8
VERSE:Nay, but ye yourselves do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Or know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with men,
LABEL:10
VERSE:nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And such were some of you: but ye were washed, but ye were sanctified, but ye were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in the Spirit of our God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:All things are lawful for me; but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful for me; but I will not be brought under the power of any.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall bring to nought both it and them. But the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body:
LABEL:14
VERSE:and God both raised the Lord, and will raise up us through his power.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Know ye not that your bodies are members of Christ? shall I then take away the members of Christ, and make them members of a harlot? God forbid.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Or know ye not that he that is joined to a harlot is one body? for, The twain, saith he, shall become one flesh.
LABEL:17
VERSE:But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Or know ye not that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which ye have from God? and ye are not your own;
LABEL:20
VERSE:for ye were bought with a price: glorify God therefore in your body.