TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:RUT
CHAPTER:2
TITLE:Ruth 2
LABEL:1
VERSE:Naomi had a relative of her husband’s, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Elimelech, and his name was Boaz.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Ruth the Moabitess said to Naomi, “Let me now go to the field, and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose sight I find favor.”
VERSE:She said to her, “Go, my daughter.”
LABEL:3
VERSE:She went, and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers; and she happened to come to the portion of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said to the reapers, “May Yahweh be with you.”
VERSE:They answered him, “May Yahweh bless you.”
LABEL:5
VERSE:Then Boaz said to his servant who was set over the reapers, “Whose young lady is this?”
LABEL:6
VERSE:The servant who was set over the reapers answered, “It is the Moabite lady who came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab.
LABEL:7
VERSE:She said, ‘Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves.’ So she came, and has continued even from the morning until now, except that she rested a little in the house.”
LABEL:8
VERSE:Then Boaz said to Ruth, “Listen, my daughter. Don’t go to glean in another field, and don’t go from here, but stay here close to my maidens.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Let your eyes be on the field that they reap, and go after them. Haven’t I commanded the young men not to touch you? When you are thirsty, go to the vessels, and drink from that which the young men have drawn.”
LABEL:10
VERSE:Then she fell on her face and bowed herself to the ground, and said to him, “Why have I found favor in your sight, that you should take knowledge of me, since I am a foreigner?”
LABEL:11
VERSE:Boaz answered her, “I have been told all about what you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband, and how you have left your father, your mother, and the land of your birth, and have come to a people that you didn’t know before.
LABEL:12
VERSE:May Yahweh repay your work, and a full reward be given to you from Yahweh, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge.”
LABEL:13
VERSE:Then she said, “Let me find favor in your sight, my lord, because you have comforted me, and because you have spoken kindly to your servant, though I am not as one of your servants.”
LABEL:14
VERSE:At meal time Boaz said to her, “Come here, and eat some bread, and dip your morsel in the vinegar.”
VERSE:She sat beside the reapers, and they passed her parched grain. She ate, was satisfied, and left some of it.
LABEL:15
VERSE:When she had risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, “Let her glean even among the sheaves, and don’t reproach her.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Also pull out some for her from the bundles, and leave it. Let her glean, and don’t rebuke her.”
LABEL:17
VERSE:So she gleaned in the field until evening; and she beat out that which she had gleaned, and it was about an ephah of barley.
LABEL:18
VERSE:She took it up, and went into the city. Then her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned; and she brought out and gave to her that which she had left after she had enough.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Her mother-in-law said to her, “Where have you gleaned today? Where have you worked? Blessed be he who noticed you.”
VERSE:She told her mother-in-law with whom she had worked, “The man’s name with whom I worked today is Boaz.”
LABEL:20
VERSE:Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, “May he be blessed by Yahweh, who has not abandoned his kindness to the living and to the dead.” Naomi said to her, “The man is a close relative to us, one of our near kinsmen.”
LABEL:21
VERSE:Ruth the Moabitess said, “Yes, he said to me, ‘You shall stay close to my young men until they have finished all my harvest.’”
LABEL:22
VERSE:Naomi said to Ruth her daughter-in-law, “It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his maidens, and that they not meet you in any other field.”
LABEL:23
VERSE:So she stayed close to the maidens of Boaz, to glean to the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest; and she lived with her mother-in-law.