TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:1TI
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:1 Timothy 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the commandment of God our Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ our hope,
LABEL:2
VERSE:to Timothy, my true child in faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
LABEL:3
VERSE:As I urged you when I was going into Macedonia, stay at Ephesus that you might command certain men not to teach a different doctrine,
LABEL:4
VERSE:and not to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies, which cause disputes rather than God’s stewardship, which is in faith.
LABEL:5
VERSE:But the goal of this command is love from a pure heart, a good conscience, and sincere faith,
LABEL:6
VERSE:from which things some, having missed the mark, have turned away to vain talking,
LABEL:7
VERSE:desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither what they say nor about what they strongly affirm.
LABEL:8
VERSE:But we know that the law is good if a person uses it lawfully,
LABEL:9
VERSE:as knowing this, that law is not made for a righteous person, but for the lawless and insubordinate, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
LABEL:10
VERSE:for the sexually immoral, for homosexuals, for slave-traders, for liars, for perjurers, and for any other thing contrary to the sound doctrine,
LABEL:11
VERSE:according to the Good News of the glory of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I thank him who enabled me, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he counted me faithful, appointing me to service,
LABEL:13
VERSE:although I used to be a blasphemer, a persecutor, and insolent. However, I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.
LABEL:14
VERSE:The grace of our Lord abounded exceedingly with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:15
VERSE:The saying is faithful and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.
LABEL:16
VERSE:However, for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first, Jesus Christ might display all his patience for an example of those who were going to believe in him for eternal life.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, to God who alone is wise, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
LABEL:18
VERSE:I commit this instruction to you, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies which were given to you before, that by them you may wage the good warfare,
LABEL:19
VERSE:holding faith and a good conscience, which some having thrust away made a shipwreck concerning the faith,
LABEL:20
VERSE:of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I delivered to Satan that they might be taught not to blaspheme.