TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:2SA
CHAPTER:8
TITLE:2 Samuel 8
LABEL:1
VERSE:After this, David struck the Philistines and subdued them; and David took the bridle of the mother city out of the hand of the Philistines.
LABEL:2
VERSE:He defeated Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. The Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.
LABEL:3
VERSE:David also struck Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion at the River.
LABEL:4
VERSE:David took from him one thousand seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand footmen. David hamstrung the chariot horses, but reserved enough of them for one hundred chariots.
LABEL:5
VERSE:When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck twenty two thousand men of the Syrians.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went.
LABEL:7
VERSE:David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
LABEL:8
VERSE:From Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, King David took a great quantity of bronze.
LABEL:9
VERSE:When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadadezer,
LABEL:10
VERSE:then Toi sent Joram his son to King David to greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and struck him; for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. Joram brought with him vessels of silver, vessels of gold, and vessels of bronze.
LABEL:11
VERSE:King David also dedicated these to Yahweh, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued—
LABEL:12
VERSE:of Syria, of Moab, of the children of Ammon, of the Philistines, of Amalek, and of the plunder of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
LABEL:13
VERSE:David earned a reputation when he returned from striking down eighteen thousand men of the Syrians in the Valley of Salt.
LABEL:14
VERSE:He put garrisons in Edom. Throughout all Edom, he put garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went.
LABEL:15
VERSE:David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness for all his people.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder,
LABEL:17
VERSE:Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, Seraiah was scribe,
LABEL:18
VERSE:Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David’s sons were chief ministers.