TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:25
TITLE:Isaiah 25
LABEL:1
VERSE:O Jehovah, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things, even counsels of old, in faithfulness and truth.
LABEL:2
VERSE:For thou hast made of a city a heap, of a fortified city a ruin, a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Therefore shall a strong people glorify thee; a city of terrible nations shall fear thee.
LABEL:4
VERSE:For thou hast been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat, when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against the wall.
LABEL:5
VERSE:As the heat in a dry place wilt thou bring down the noise of strangers; as the heat by the shade of a cloud, the song of the terrible ones shall be brought low.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And in this mountain will Jehovah of hosts make unto all peoples a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering that covereth all peoples, and the veil that is spread over all nations.
LABEL:8
VERSE:He hath swallowed up death for ever; and the Lord Jehovah will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the reproach of his people will he take away from off all the earth: for Jehovah hath spoken it.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited for him, and he will save us: this is Jehovah; we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For in this mountain will the hand of Jehovah rest; and Moab shall be trodden down in his place, even as straw is trodden down in the water of the dunghill.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst thereof, as he that swimmeth spreadeth forth his hands to swim; but Jehovah will lay low his pride together with the craft of his hands.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And the high fortress of thy walls hath he brought down, laid low, and brought to the ground, even to the dust.