TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:26
TITLE:Isaiah 26
LABEL:1
VERSE:In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: We have a strong city; salvation will he appoint for walls and bulwarks.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth faith may enter in.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee; because he trusteth in thee.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Trust ye in Jehovah for ever; for in Jehovah, even Jehovah, is an everlasting rock.
LABEL:5
VERSE:For he hath brought down them that dwell on high, the lofty city: he layeth it low, he layeth it low even to the ground; he bringeth it even to the dust.
LABEL:6
VERSE:The foot shall tread it down; even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy.
LABEL:7
VERSE:The way of the just is uprightness: thou that art upright dost direct the path of the just.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O Jehovah, have we waited for thee; to thy name, even to thy memorial name, is the desire of our soul.
LABEL:9
VERSE:With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee earnestly: for when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Let favor be showed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness will he deal wrongfully, and will not behold the majesty of Jehovah.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Jehovah, thy hand is lifted up, yet they see not: but they shall see thy zeal for the people, and be put to shame; yea, fire shall devour thine adversaries.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Jehovah, thou wilt ordain peace for us; for thou hast also wrought all our works for us.
LABEL:13
VERSE:O Jehovah our God, other lords besides thee have had dominion over us; but by thee only will we make mention of thy name.
LABEL:14
VERSE:They are dead, they shall not live; they are deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all remembrance of them to perish.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Thou hast increased the nation, O Jehovah, thou hast increased the nation; thou art glorified; thou hast enlarged all the borders of the land.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Jehovah, in trouble have they visited thee; they poured out a prayer when thy chastening was upon them.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain and crieth out in her pangs; so we have been before thee, O Jehovah.
LABEL:18
VERSE:We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Thy dead shall live; my dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust; for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast forth the dead.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast.
LABEL:21
VERSE:For, behold, Jehovah cometh forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.