TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:33
TITLE:Isaiah 33
LABEL:1
VERSE:Woe to thee that destroyest, and thou wast not destroyed; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! When thou hast ceased to destroy, thou shalt be destroyed; and when thou hast made an end of dealing treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee.
LABEL:2
VERSE:O Jehovah, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou our arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble.
LABEL:3
VERSE:At the noise of the tumult the peoples are fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations are scattered.
LABEL:4
VERSE:And your spoil shall be gathered as the caterpillar gathereth: as locusts leap shall men leap upon it.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Jehovah is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
LABEL:6
VERSE:And there shall be stability in thy times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge: the fear of Jehovah is thy treasure.
LABEL:7
VERSE:Behold, their valiant ones cry without; the ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.
LABEL:8
VERSE:The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: the enemy hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth not man.
LABEL:9
VERSE:The land mourneth and languisheth; Lebanon is confounded and withereth away; Sharon is like a desert; and Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Now will I arise, saith Jehovah; now will I lift up myself; now will I be exalted.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath is a fire that shall devour you.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And the peoples shall be as the burnings of lime, as thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that are near, acknowledge my might.
LABEL:14
VERSE:The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling hath seized the godless ones: Who among us can dwell with the devouring fire? who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?
LABEL:15
VERSE:He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from taking a bribe, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from looking upon evil:
LABEL:16
VERSE:He shall dwell on high; his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks; his bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold a land that reacheth afar.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Thy heart shall muse on the terror: Where is he that counted, where is he that weighed the tribute? where is he that counted the towers?
LABEL:19
VERSE:Thou shalt not see the fierce people, a people of a deep speech that thou canst not comprehend, of a strange tongue that thou canst not understand.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not be removed, the stakes whereof shall never be plucked up, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken.
LABEL:21
VERSE:But there Jehovah will be with us in majesty, a place of broad rivers and streams, wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby.
LABEL:22
VERSE:For Jehovah is our judge, Jehovah is our lawgiver, Jehovah is our king; he will save us.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not strengthen the foot of their mast, they could not spread the sail: then was the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame took the prey.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.