TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:43
TITLE:Isaiah 43
LABEL:1
VERSE:But now thus saith Jehovah that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee; I have called thee by thy name, thou art mine.
LABEL:2
VERSE:When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For I am Jehovah thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour; I have given Egypt as thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba in thy stead.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Since thou hast been precious in my sight, and honorable, and I have loved thee; therefore will I give men in thy stead, and peoples instead of thy life.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Fear not; for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west;
LABEL:6
VERSE:I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back; bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the end of the earth;
LABEL:7
VERSE:every one that is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed, yea, whom I have made.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled: who among them can declare this, and show us former things? let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; or let them hear, and say, It is truth.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, and my servant whom I have chosen; that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.
LABEL:11
VERSE:I, even I, am Jehovah; and besides me there is no saviour.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I have declared, and I have saved, and I have showed; and there was no strange god among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, and I am God.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Yea, since the day was I am he; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who can hinder it?
LABEL:14
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and I will bring down all of them as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their rejoicing.
LABEL:15
VERSE:I am Jehovah, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah, who maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters;
LABEL:17
VERSE:who bringeth forth the chariot and horse, the army and the mighty man (they lie down together, they shall not rise; they are extinct, they are quenched as a wick):
LABEL:18
VERSE:Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Behold, I will do a new thing; now shall it spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert.
LABEL:20
VERSE:The beasts of the field shall honor me, the jackals and the ostriches; because I give waters in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert, to give drink to my people, my chosen,
LABEL:21
VERSE:the people which I formed for myself, that they might set forth my praise.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Yet thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast been weary of me, O Israel.
LABEL:23
VERSE:Thou hast not brought me of thy sheep for burnt-offerings; neither hast thou honored me with thy sacrifices. I have not burdened thee with offerings, nor wearied thee with frankincense.
LABEL:24
VERSE:Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices; but thou hast burdened me with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities.
LABEL:25
VERSE:I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake; and I will not remember thy sins.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Put me in remembrance; let us plead together: set thou forth thy cause, that thou mayest be justified.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Thy first father sinned, and thy teachers have transgressed against me.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary; and I will make Jacob a curse, and Israel a reviling.