TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:47
TITLE:Isaiah 47
LABEL:1
VERSE:Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called tender and delicate.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Take the millstones, and grind meal; remove thy veil, strip off the train, uncover the leg, pass through the rivers.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Thy nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, thy shame shall be seen: I will take vengeance, and will spare no man.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Our Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for thou shalt no more be called The mistress of kingdoms.
LABEL:6
VERSE:I was wroth with my people, I profaned mine inheritance, and gave them into thy hand: thou didst show them no mercy; upon the aged hast thou very heavily laid thy yoke.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And thou saidst, I shall be mistress for ever; so that thou didst not lay these things to thy heart, neither didst remember the latter end thereof.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Now therefore hear this, thou that art given to pleasures, that sittest securely, that sayest in thy heart, I am, and there is none else besides me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children:
LABEL:9
VERSE:but these two things shall come to thee in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood; in their full measure shall they come upon thee, in the multitude of thy sorceries, and the great abundance of thine enchantments.
LABEL:10
VERSE:For thou hast trusted in thy wickedness; thou hast said, None seeth me; thy wisdom and thy knowledge, it hath perverted thee, and thou hast said in thy heart, I am, and there is none else besides me.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Therefore shall evil come upon thee; thou shalt not know the dawning thereof: and mischief shall fall upon thee; thou shalt not be able to put it away: and desolation shall come upon thee suddenly, which thou knowest not.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Stand now with thine enchantments, and with the multitude of thy sorceries, wherein thou hast labored from thy youth; if so be thou shalt be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels: let now the astrologers, the star-gazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from the things that shall come upon thee.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: it shall not be a coal to warm at, nor a fire to sit before.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Thus shall the things be unto thee wherein thou hast labored: they that have trafficked with thee from thy youth shall wander every one to his quarter; there shall be none to save thee.