TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:57
TITLE:Isaiah 57
LABEL:1
VERSE:The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart; and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil to come.
LABEL:2
VERSE:He entereth into peace; they rest in their beds, each one that walketh in his uprightness.
LABEL:3
VERSE:But draw near hither, ye sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the harlot.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Against whom do ye sport yourselves? against whom make ye a wide mouth, and put out the tongue? are ye not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood,
LABEL:5
VERSE:ye that inflame yourselves among the oaks, under every green tree; that slay the children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks?
LABEL:6
VERSE:Among the smooth stones of the valley is thy portion; they, they are thy lot; even to them hast thou poured a drink-offering, thou hast offered an oblation. Shall I be appeased for these things?
LABEL:7
VERSE:Upon a high and lofty mountain hast thou set thy bed; thither also wentest thou up to offer sacrifice.
LABEL:8
VERSE:And behind the doors and the posts hast thou set up thy memorial: for thou hast uncovered thyself to another than me, and art gone up; thou hast enlarged thy bed, and made thee a covenant with them: thou lovedst their bed where thou sawest it.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And thou wentest to the king with oil, and didst increase thy perfumes, and didst send thine ambassadors far off, and didst debase thyself even unto Sheol.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Thou wast wearied with the length of thy way; yet saidst thou not, It is in vain: thou didst find a quickening of thy strength; therefore thou wast not faint.
LABEL:11
VERSE:And of whom hast thou been afraid and in fear, that thou liest, and hast not remembered me, nor laid it to thy heart? have not I held my peace even of long time, and thou fearest me not?
LABEL:12
VERSE:I will declare thy righteousness; and as for thy works, they shall not profit thee.
LABEL:13
VERSE:When thou criest, let them that thou hast gathered deliver thee; but the wind shall take them, a breath shall carry them all away: but he that taketh refuge in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain.
LABEL:14
VERSE:And he will say, Cast ye up, cast ye up, prepare the way, take up the stumbling-block out of the way of my people.
LABEL:15
VERSE:For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy: I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite.
LABEL:16
VERSE:For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth; for the spirit would faint before me, and the souls that I have made.
LABEL:17
VERSE:For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him; I hid my face and was wroth; and he went on backsliding in the way of his heart.
LABEL:18
VERSE:I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also, and restore comforts unto him and to his mourners.
LABEL:19
VERSE:I create the fruit of the lips: Peace, peace, to him that is far off and to him that is near, saith Jehovah; and I will heal him.
LABEL:20
VERSE:But the wicked are like the troubled sea; for it cannot rest, and its waters cast up mire and dirt.
LABEL:21
VERSE:There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.