TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:ISA
CHAPTER:65
TITLE:Isaiah 65
LABEL:1
VERSE:I am inquired of by them that asked not for me; I am found of them that sought me not: I said, Behold me, behold me, unto a nation that was not called by my name.
LABEL:2
VERSE:I have spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious people, that walk in a way that is not good, after their own thoughts;
LABEL:3
VERSE:a people that provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens, and burning incense upon bricks;
LABEL:4
VERSE:that sit among the graves, and lodge in the secret places; that eat swine’s flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels;
LABEL:5
VERSE:that say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burneth all the day.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Behold, it is written before me: I will not keep silence, but will recompense, yea, I will recompense into their bosom,
LABEL:7
VERSE:your own iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, saith Jehovah, that have burned incense upon the mountains, and blasphemed me upon the hills: therefore will I first measure their work into their bosom.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Thus saith Jehovah, As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one saith, Destroy it not, for a blessing is in it: so will I do for my servants’ sake, that I may not destroy them all.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains; and my chosen shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me.
LABEL:11
VERSE:But ye that forsake Jehovah, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for Fortune, and that fill up mingled wine unto Destiny;
LABEL:12
VERSE:I will destine you to the sword, and ye shall all bow down to the slaughter; because when I called, ye did not answer; when I spake, ye did not hear; but ye did that which was evil in mine eyes, and chose that wherein I delighted not.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah, Behold, my servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry; behold, my servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty; behold, my servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be put to shame;
LABEL:14
VERSE:behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall wail for vexation of spirit.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And ye shall leave your name for a curse unto my chosen; and the Lord Jehovah will slay thee; and he will call his servants by another name:
LABEL:16
VERSE:so that he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they are hid from mine eyes.
LABEL:17
VERSE:For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.
LABEL:18
VERSE:But be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create; for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people; and there shall be heard in her no more the voice of weeping and the voice of crying.
LABEL:20
VERSE:There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days; for the child shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner being a hundred years old shall be accursed.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them.
LABEL:22
VERSE:They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree shall be the days of my people, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
LABEL:23
VERSE:They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for calamity; for they are the seed of the blessed of Jehovah, and their offspring with them.
LABEL:24
VERSE:And it shall come to pass that, before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.
LABEL:25
VERSE:The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent’s food. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith Jehovah.