TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:COL
CHAPTER:3
TITLE:Colossians 3
LABEL:1
VERSE:If then you were raised together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated on the right hand of God.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth.
LABEL:3
VERSE:For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
LABEL:4
VERSE:When Christ, our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Put to death therefore your members which are on the earth: sexual immorality, uncleanness, depraved passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.
LABEL:6
VERSE:For these things’ sake the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience.
LABEL:7
VERSE:You also once walked in those, when you lived in them,
LABEL:8
VERSE:but now you must put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and shameful speaking out of your mouth.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Don’t lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his doings,
LABEL:10
VERSE:and have put on the new man, who is being renewed in knowledge after the image of his Creator,
LABEL:11
VERSE:where there can’t be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondservant, or free person; but Christ is all, and in all.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Put on therefore, as God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, humility, and perseverance;
LABEL:13
VERSE:bearing with one another, and forgiving each other, if any man has a complaint against any; even as Christ forgave you, so you also do.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Above all these things, walk in love, which is the bond of perfection.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, and be thankful.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Whatever you do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Wives, be in subjection to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Husbands, love your wives, and don’t be bitter against them.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Children, obey your parents in all things, for this pleases the Lord.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Fathers, don’t provoke your children, so that they won’t be discouraged.
LABEL:22
VERSE:Servants, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not just when they are looking, as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men,
LABEL:24
VERSE:knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance; for you serve the Lord Christ.
LABEL:25
VERSE:But he who does wrong will receive again for the wrong that he has done, and there is no partiality.