TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:COL
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:Colossians 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:Masters, give to your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Continue steadfastly in prayer, watching in it with thanksgiving,
LABEL:3
VERSE:praying together for us also, that God may open to us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds,
LABEL:4
VERSE:that I may reveal it as I ought to speak.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time.
LABEL:6
VERSE:Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
LABEL:7
VERSE:All my affairs will be made known to you by Tychicus, the beloved brother, faithful servant, and fellow bondservant in the Lord.
LABEL:8
VERSE:I am sending him to you for this very purpose, that he may know your circumstances and comfort your hearts,
LABEL:9
VERSE:together with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you everything that is going on here.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and Mark the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you received instructions, “if he comes to you, receive him”),
LABEL:11
VERSE:and Jesus who is called Justus. These are my only fellow workers for God’s Kingdom who are of the circumcision, men who have been a comfort to me.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you, always striving for you in his prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
LABEL:13
VERSE:For I testify about him that he has great zeal for you, and for those in Laodicea, and for those in Hierapolis.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Luke the beloved physician and Demas greet you.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, with Nymphas and the assembly that is in his house.
LABEL:16
VERSE:When this letter has been read among you, cause it to be read also in the assembly of the Laodiceans, and that you also read the letter from Laodicea.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Tell Archippus, “Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.”
LABEL:18
VERSE:I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. Amen.