TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:JHN
CHAPTER:15
TITLE:John 15
LABEL:1
VERSE:  “I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.
LABEL:2
VERSE:Every branch in me that doesn’t bear fruit, he takes away. Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.
LABEL:3
VERSE:You are already pruned clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Remain in me, and I in you. As the branch can’t bear fruit by itself unless it remains in the vine, so neither can you, unless you remain in me.
LABEL:5
VERSE:I am the vine. You are the branches. He who remains in me and I in him bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.
LABEL:6
VERSE:If a man doesn’t remain in me, he is thrown out as a branch and is withered; and they gather them, throw them into the fire, and they are burned.
LABEL:7
VERSE:If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, you will ask whatever you desire, and it will be done for you.
LABEL:8
VERSE:  “In this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit; and so you will be my disciples.
LABEL:9
VERSE:Even as the Father has loved me, I also have loved you. Remain in my love.
LABEL:10
VERSE:If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love, even as I have kept my Father’s commandments and remain in his love.
LABEL:11
VERSE:I have spoken these things to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be made full.
LABEL:12
VERSE:  “This is my commandment, that you love one another, even as I have loved you.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.
LABEL:14
VERSE:You are my friends if you do whatever I command you.
LABEL:15
VERSE:No longer do I call you servants, for the servant doesn’t know what his lord does. But I have called you friends, for everything that I heard from my Father, I have made known to you.
LABEL:16
VERSE:You didn’t choose me, but I chose you and appointed you, that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should remain; that whatever you will ask of the Father in my name, he may give it to you.
LABEL:17
VERSE:  “I command these things to you, that you may love one another.
LABEL:18
VERSE:If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you.
LABEL:19
VERSE:If you were of the world, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, since I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Remember the word that I said to you: ‘A servant is not greater than his lord.’  If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours.
LABEL:21
VERSE:But they will do all these things to you for my name’s sake, because they don’t know him who sent me.
LABEL:22
VERSE:If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have had sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.
LABEL:23
VERSE:He who hates me, hates my Father also.
LABEL:24
VERSE:If I hadn’t done among them the works which no one else did, they wouldn’t have had sin. But now they have seen and also hated both me and my Father.
LABEL:25
VERSE:But this happened so that the word may be fulfilled which was written in their law, ‘They hated me without a cause.’
LABEL:26
VERSE:  “When the Counselor    has come, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me.
LABEL:27
VERSE:You will also testify, because you have been with me from the beginning.