TRANSLATION:KJV
BOOK:LEV
CHAPTER:19
TITLE:Leviticus 19
SECTION:General Statutes
LABEL:1
VERSE:And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
LABEL:2
VERSE:Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy: for I the LORD your God am holy.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father, and keep my sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am the LORD your God.
LABEL:5
VERSE:And if ye offer a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD, ye shall offer it at your own will.
LABEL:6
VERSE:It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow: and if ought remain until the third day, it shall be burnt in the fire.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is abominable; it shall not be accepted.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Therefore every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he hath profaned the hallowed thing of the LORD: and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest.
LABEL:10
VERSE:And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and stranger: I am the LORD your God.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to another.
LABEL:12
VERSE:And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.
LABEL:13
VERSE:Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbour, neither rob him: the wages of him that is hired shall not abide with thee all night until the morning.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind, but shalt fear thy God: I am the LORD.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honour the person of the mighty: but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbour.
LABEL:16
VERSE:Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people: neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbour: I am the LORD.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart: thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbour, and not suffer sin upon him.
LABEL:18
VERSE:Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I am the LORD.
LABEL:19
VERSE:Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender with a diverse kind: thou shalt not sow thy field with mingled seed: neither shall a garment mingled of linen and woollen come upon thee.
LABEL:20
VERSE:And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, that is a bondmaid, betrothed to an husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her; she shall be scourged; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
LABEL:21
VERSE:And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, even a ram for a trespass offering.
LABEL:22
VERSE:And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before the LORD for his sin which he hath done: and the sin which he hath done shall be forgiven him.
LABEL:23
VERSE:And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit thereof as uncircumcised: three years shall it be as uncircumcised unto you: it shall not be eaten of.
LABEL:24
VERSE:But in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy to praise the LORD  withal.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And in the fifth year shall ye eat of the fruit thereof, that it may yield unto you the increase thereof: I am the LORD your God.
LABEL:26
VERSE:Ye shall not eat any thing with the blood: neither shall ye use enchantment, nor observe times.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard.
LABEL:28
VERSE:Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am the LORD.
LABEL:29
VERSE:Do not prostitute thy daughter, to cause her to be a whore; lest the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness.
LABEL:30
VERSE:Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD.
LABEL:31
VERSE:Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God.
LABEL:32
VERSE:Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honour the face of the old man, and fear thy God: I am the LORD.
LABEL:33
VERSE:And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not vex him.
LABEL:34
VERSE:But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.
LABEL:35
VERSE:Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in meteyard, in weight, or in measure.
LABEL:36
VERSE:Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have: I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt.
LABEL:37
VERSE:Therefore shall ye observe all my statutes, and all my judgments, and do them: I am the LORD.