TRANSLATION:WEBUS
BOOK:ECC
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Ecclesiastes 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem:
LABEL:2
VERSE:“Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher; “Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.”
LABEL:3
VERSE:What does man gain from all his labor in which he labors under the sun?
LABEL:4
VERSE:One generation goes, and another generation comes; but the earth remains forever.
LABEL:5
VERSE:The sun also rises, and the sun goes down, and hurries to its place where it rises.
LABEL:6
VERSE:The wind goes toward the south, and turns around to the north. It turns around continually as it goes, and the wind returns again to its courses.
LABEL:7
VERSE:All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. To the place where the rivers flow, there they flow again.
LABEL:8
VERSE:All things are full of weariness beyond uttering. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.
LABEL:9
VERSE:That which has been is that which shall be, and that which has been done is that which shall be done; and there is no new thing under the sun.
LABEL:10
VERSE:Is there a thing of which it may be said, “Behold, this is new”? It has been long ago, in the ages which were before us.
LABEL:11
VERSE:There is no memory of the former; neither shall there be any memory of the latter that are to come, among those that shall come after.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I, the Preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem.
LABEL:13
VERSE:I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under the sky. It is a heavy burden that God has given to the sons of men to be afflicted with.
LABEL:14
VERSE:I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and behold, all is vanity and a chasing after wind.
LABEL:15
VERSE:That which is crooked can’t be made straight; and that which is lacking can’t be counted.
LABEL:16
VERSE:I said to myself, “Behold, I have obtained for myself great wisdom above all who were before me in Jerusalem. Yes, my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.”
LABEL:17
VERSE:I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly. I perceived that this also was a chasing after wind.
LABEL:18
VERSE:For in much wisdom is much grief; and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow.