TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:PHP
CHAPTER:1
TITLE:Philippians 1
LABEL:1
VERSE:Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
LABEL:2
VERSE:Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
LABEL:3
VERSE:I thank my God upon all my remembrance of you,
LABEL:4
VERSE:always in every supplication of mine on behalf of you all making my supplication with joy,
LABEL:5
VERSE:for your fellowship in furtherance of the gospel from the first day until now;
LABEL:6
VERSE:being confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Jesus Christ:
LABEL:7
VERSE:even as it is right for me to be thus minded on behalf of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as, both in my bonds and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers with me of grace.
LABEL:8
VERSE:For God is my witness, how I long after you all in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.
LABEL:9
VERSE:And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment;
LABEL:10
VERSE:so that ye may approve the things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and void of offence unto the day of Christ;
LABEL:11
VERSE:being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
LABEL:12
VERSE:Now I would have you know, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the progress of the gospel;
LABEL:13
VERSE:so that my bonds became manifest in Christ throughout the whole prætorian guard, and to all the rest;
LABEL:14
VERSE:and that most of the brethren in the Lord, being confident through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
LABEL:15
VERSE:Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife; and some also of good will:
LABEL:16
VERSE:the one do it of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel;
LABEL:17
VERSE:but the other proclaim Christ of faction, not sincerely, thinking to raise up affliction for me in my bonds.
LABEL:18
VERSE:What then? only that in every way, whether in pretence or in truth, Christ is proclaimed; and therein I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
LABEL:19
VERSE:For I know that this shall turn out to my salvation, through your supplication and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
LABEL:20
VERSE:according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing shall I be put to shame, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
LABEL:21
VERSE:For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
LABEL:22
VERSE:But if to live in the flesh,—if this shall bring fruit from my work, then what I shall choose I know not.
LABEL:23
VERSE:But I am in a strait betwixt the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ; for it is very far better:
LABEL:24
VERSE:yet to abide in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
LABEL:25
VERSE:And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide, yea, and abide with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith;
LABEL:26
VERSE:that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence with you again.
LABEL:27
VERSE:Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ: that, whether I come and see you or be absent, I may hear of your state, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul striving for the faith of the gospel;
LABEL:28
VERSE:and in nothing affrighted by the adversaries: which is for them an evident token of perdition, but of your salvation, and that from God;
LABEL:29
VERSE:because to you it hath been granted in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer in his behalf:
LABEL:30
VERSE:having the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.