TRANSLATION:ASV
BOOK:PHP
CHAPTER:4
TITLE:Philippians 4
LABEL:1
VERSE:Wherefore, my brethren beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
LABEL:2
VERSE:I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to be of the same mind in the Lord.
LABEL:3
VERSE:Yea, I beseech thee also, true yokefellow, help these women, for they labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
LABEL:4
VERSE:Rejoice in the Lord always: again I will say, Rejoice.
LABEL:5
VERSE:Let your forbearance be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand.
LABEL:6
VERSE:In nothing be anxious; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.
LABEL:7
VERSE:And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:8
VERSE:Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.
LABEL:9
VERSE:The things which ye both learned and received and heard and saw in me, these things do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
LABEL:10
VERSE:But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at length ye have revived your thought for me; wherein ye did indeed take thought, but ye lacked opportunity.
LABEL:11
VERSE:Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therein to be content.
LABEL:12
VERSE:I know how to be abased, and I know also how to abound: in everything and in all things have I learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want.
LABEL:13
VERSE:I can do all things in him that strengtheneth me.
LABEL:14
VERSE:Howbeit ye did well that ye had fellowship with my affliction.
LABEL:15
VERSE:And ye yourselves also know, ye Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me in the matter of giving and receiving but ye only;
LABEL:16
VERSE:for even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my need.
LABEL:17
VERSE:Not that I seek for the gift; but I seek for the fruit that increaseth to your account.
LABEL:18
VERSE:But I have all things, and abound: I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things that came from you, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God.
LABEL:19
VERSE:And my God shall supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
LABEL:20
VERSE:Now unto our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
LABEL:21
VERSE:Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
LABEL:22
VERSE:All the saints salute you, especially they that are of Cæsar’s household.
LABEL:23
VERSE:The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.